Title: Graph-Guided Repository Environment Construction

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.33429v1

Published Time: Tue, 29 Sep 2026 02:01:33 GMT

Number of Pages: 30

Markdown Content:
# GRAPH -G UIDED REPOSITORY ENVIRONMENT CONSTRUCTION 

Jianying Pan 1,* , John Zhang 2,* , Hongyu Zhang 1,† 

> 1

Chongqing University 

> 2

University of New South Wales 

## ABSTRACT 

Coding agents now increasingly rely on execution to validate their solutions, mak-ing the construction of reliable execution environments a critical enabling capabil-ity. However, repository environment construction is challenging because execu-tion requirements are fragmented across repository artifacts and may only become apparent during execution. Existing agent-based approaches address this prob-lem through iterative interaction, but information about the current construction state, including discovered requirements, satisfied and unresolved prerequisites, and their dependencies, can remain distributed across the interaction history. We present G RAPH 2E NV , an agent-based approach centered on DepGraph, a typed dependency graph that explicitly represents the environment requirements needed for repository execution, their dependency relations, and their states. Graph2Env uses DepGraph to guide environment construction and continuously refines it with execution feedback, while persisting successful repairs into a replayable con-struction procedure. The resulting artifacts are then applied in a fresh environ-ment to verify that the constructed environment can be reproduced. We eval-uate Graph2Env on a benchmark of 200 Python repositories drawn from RAT-Bench and EnvBench, against a static dependency-inference baseline (pipreqs), three specialized environment-construction systems (Repo2Run, RAT, and Se-tupX), and two general-purpose coding agents (SWE-agent and Claude Code). Graph2Env achieves an 81.0% Environment Build Success Rate (EBSR) and a 59.3% Environment Setup Success Rate (ESSR), outperforming the strongest baseline by 9.5 and 9.0 percentage points, respectively. 

## 1 INTRODUCTION 

Coding agents can now navigate repositories, edit source files, execute commands, run tests, diag-nose failures, and iteratively refine their solutions. Benchmarks such as SWE-bench evaluate such agents on real-world GitHub issues by requiring them to generate patches that resolve repository-level problems (Jimenez et al., 2024). Critically, many of these capabilities rely on execution: an agent must be able to run software and its tests to obtain feedback, validate changes, and determine whether a task has actually been solved. Thus, as coding agents become increasingly execution-grounded, constructing an executable repository environment becomes a fundamental enabling ca-pability for autonomous software development. Unfortunately, constructing such environments remains challenging. A repository rarely specifies its complete execution requirements in a single place. Instead, requirements for constructing a reposi-tory environment can span multiple layers, including language runtime, system libraries, build tools, and runtime configurations. Empirical studies (Eliseeva et al., 2025; Hu et al., 2025) have repeatedly shown that automatically rebuilding software repositories is difficult and has substantial build-failure rates. The problem is further complicated because some requirements are latent: they become ob-servable only during execution. For example, installing a language-level package may expose a missing native compiler; resolving that compiler may reveal a missing system library; successful test collection may subsequently expose a required service or runtime configuration. Consequently, repository environment construction is an iterative process in which the system must repeatedly in-

> *Equal contribution.
> †Corresponding author.

1arXiv:2609.33429v1 [cs.SE] 27 Sep 2026 Repository Wecode-ai/Wegent 

Manifest 

> backend/pyproject.toml dependencies = [ ... "pypdf2>=3.0.0",
> "python-docx>=1.1.0",
> ... ]

Tests / Source     

> import emoji from docx import Document
> ...

Task Goal 

> Construct the environment Collect repository tests

(a) Trajectory-based Agent: Repo2Run 

(b) Graph2Env with DepGraph 

Step 1  

> Read Manifest
> cat backend/pyproject.toml
> ...
> pypdf2>=3.0.0
> python-docx>=1.1.0
> ...
> Growing interaction history

…

> Earlier evidence not reconciled

Step k 

> Scan Imports
> pipreqs
> import docx

→ docx:0.2.4 

Step m      

> Install Package
> pip install docx==0.2.4
> Installed successfully
> !Wrong package
> docx==0.2.4
> Test → Repair other errors
> → Test → ⋯
> →→
> Test Repair
> other errors
> Test

…

Step 100              

> Collect Tests
> pytest --collect-only
> from docx import Document
> No module named 'exceptions'
> 0 turns left
> Collection failed
> Manifest evidence recedes in a growing trajectory → incorrect package inference → repeated repairs → turn budget exhausted
> Analyze Repository
> Source
> TOML Manifest Imports
> Persistent DepGraph
> extract
> dependencies
> tests backend dependency set
> lxml PyMySQL
> import docx
> package mapping python-docx>=1.1.0
> compile

Execute       

> Run compiled setup Diagnose failures Apply graph updates
> Installed
> python-docx==1.2.0
> Observed installation result
> dependency
> context
> ordered action
> new information
> Verify on Clean Environment
> Setup Test collection
> Clean replay succeeds
> Persistent dependency view → graph-guided execution → python-docx==1.2.0 →clean replay succeeds
> Build Script ...... python3 -m pip install python-docx>=1.1.0
> pypdf2
> TOML

Figure 1: Motivating comparison between trajectory-based environment construction and Graph2Env on the wecode-ai/Wegent repository 1. Repo2Run loses track of earlier manifest ev-idence and installs the wrong docx package, whereas Graph2Env preserves the import-to-package mapping in DepGraph, compiles it into the build script, and succeeds under clean replay. fer requirements, satisfy their prerequisites, execute the repository, interpret failures, and revise its understanding of the environment. Recognizing this challenge, recent approaches such as Repo2Run, RAT, and SetupX (Hu et al., 2025; Huang et al., 2026; Zhou et al., 2026) have begun to employ LLM agents to automate repos-itory environment construction. For example, Repo2Run uses an LLM-based build agent to au-tomate dependency management, conflict resolution, Python-version management, and Dockerfile construction. These approaches demonstrate that agentic reasoning and execution feedback can sub-stantially improve upon purely static dependency extraction. General-purpose coding agents such as Codex, Claude Code, and SWE-agent can also inspect repository artifacts, execute shell commands, install dependencies, observe failures, and iteratively repair their working environments. However, current approaches introduce a fundamental challenge: information about discovered requirements, satisfied prerequisites, unresolved problems, and previous repairs is largely distributed across the interaction trajectory (i.e., the accumulated sequence of actions and execution observations). As tra-jectories become longer, the agents must repeatedly reconstruct from their history what has already been established, what remains missing, and how individual requirements depend on one another. In our motivating example shown in Figure 1, this results in earlier manifest evidence being overlooked and subsequent repairs being guided by an incorrect package inference. We argue that repository environment construction should be stateful. Rather than treating construc-tion as trajectory-driven trial and error, an agent should maintain an explicit representation of the construction state: what requirements exist, how they depend on one another, which requirements have been satisfied, and which remain unresolved. Such a representation should not merely serve as passive memory. It should actively determine what construction actions need to be performed, evolve as new evidence is obtained from execution, and ultimately produce a procedure that can reconstruct the discovered environment from scratch. Based on this insight, we present Graph2Env , a stateful approach to repository environment con-struction built around an explicit Dependency Graph (DepGraph). DepGraph represents the ex-ecution target and heterogeneous environment requirements (imports, packages, runtimes, tools, system libraries, etc.) as typed nodes, while edges capture dependency and mapping relation-ships among them. Unlike a conventional package-dependency graph, DepGraph is an execution-grounded, evolving representation of environment-construction state. Graph2Env first constructs an initial DepGraph from repository evidence, dependency resolution, and lightweight probing, and compiles the graph into a dependency-ordered construction procedure. During execution, an agent 

1https://github.com/wecode-ai/Wegent 

2diagnoses failures and updates the DepGraph with newly discovered or revised requirements and dependencies, triggering recompilation when necessary. Finally, Graph2Env replays the resulting procedure from a clean base to verify reproducible environment construction. To evaluate Graph2Env, we construct a new evaluation benchmark of 200 Python repositories drawn from RATBench and EnvBench (Huang et al., 2026; Eliseeva et al., 2025). We compare Graph2Env against static dependency extraction, specialized environment-construction systems, and general-purpose coding agents. Graph2Env achieves an Environment Build Success Rate (EBSR) of 81.0%, compared with 71.5% for Claude Code, the strongest general-purpose coding agent evaluated, and 52.5% for SetupX, the strongest specialized baseline on this metric. Graph2Env further achieves an Environment Setup Success Rate (ESSR) of 59.3%, compared with 50.3% for the strongest baseline. In summary, this work makes the following contributions: • We introduce DepGraph, which supplies a dependency-ordered plan before execution and absorbs requirement-level information discovered during it. • We introduce Graph2Env, which externalizes the current state of repository environment construction into a typed dependency graph spanning heterogeneous requirements. Dep-Graph is continuously refined using execution evidence and operationalized by compiling its requirements and dependencies into a replayable construction procedure. • We evaluate Graph2Env against both specialized environment-construction systems and strong general-purpose coding agents, demonstrating substantial improvements in environ-ment construction and downstream execution. 

## 2 RELATED WORK 

2.1 AUTOMATED REPOSITORY ENVIRONMENT CONSTRUCTION 

Repository environment setup has traditionally been performed manually by developers following installation instructions. Early attempts at automation used static methods, deriving dependencies from source analysis and knowledge bases of existing packages and Dockerfiles (bndr, 2015; Horton & Parnin, 2019; Ye et al., 2021). These methods produce a requirement list before any command runs, but they compute it once and cannot capture requirements that appear only when installation or execution fails. LLM-based agents make setup interactive. The agents can inspect the repository, run commands in a container, diagnose the resulting failures, and repair the environment (Bouzenia & Pradel, 2025; Milliken et al., 2025; Li et al., 2026). Recent methods split this work across special-ized roles or reuse experience from earlier attempts (Guo et al., 2025; Wei et al., 2026; Guo et al., 2026). These approaches organize the setup process in different ways, but the construction state of the repository being configured remains implicit in the interaction trajectory. Among the works most relevant to ours, Repo2Run targets Python repositories, repairing installation and test failures and writing the successful commands into a Dockerfile at the end (Hu et al., 2025). RAT spans many lan-guage ecosystems and plans configuration in advance, but over configuration modes and operations rather than over the requirements a repository must satisfy (Huang et al., 2026). SetupX goes further and transfers experience from earlier setup failures into later repairs (Zhou et al., 2026). In all three, what a repository requires and what already holds stay implicit in the trajectory. Graph2Env makes both explicit. DepGraph records the requirements relevant to the designated target, their dependency and mapping relations, and their states. The build script is compiled from that structure instead of assembled from a successful interaction. 2.2 STRUCTURED STATE , M EMORY , AND PLANNING FOR LLM A GENTS 

Long-horizon agents often preserve information beyond the immediate action through external memory and reflection. The Generative Agents framework (Park et al., 2023) stores natural-language experiences, synthesizes reflections, and retrieves relevant memories for later planning, while Reflexion (Shinn et al., 2023) converts task feedback into reflective text retained for sub-sequent trials. More structured approaches organize information for future decisions as cognitive maps or graph-based trajectory abstractions: MAP (Liu et al., 2026), a Map-then-Act paradigm, constructs a task-specific cognitive map before execution, and Trainable Graph Memory (Xia et al., 2025) abstracts trajectories into state-machine decision paths and cross-task strategic memory. These 3approaches retain, retrieve, or organize task-relevant information to support subsequent decisions, rather than explicitly modeling the current state of repository environment construction. Graph2Env shares the broader goal of externalizing task-relevant information for subsequent deci-sions, but DepGraph is neither generic episodic memory nor learned cross-task strategy memory. It represents the active state of a specific repository-environment construction task: target-relevant requirements, their dependency relations, and evidence-derived requirement states. The interaction trajectory remains available as execution evidence, while DepGraph is refined from that evidence to support subsequent construction and repair. Thus, it keeps actionable construction information explicit without excluding the original interaction evidence. 

## 3 GRAPH 2E NV : T HE PROPOSED APPROACH 

Graph2Env constructs repository execution environments around a persistent DepGraph that ex-plicitly represents the current construction state. We use execution target to denote the repository operation that the constructed environment is intended to support, such as test collection or test execution. As shown in Figure 2, Graph2Env first constructs an initial DepGraph from reposi-tory evidence, dependency resolution, and lightweight probing. It then compiles the graph into a dependency-consistent, replayable build script. During iterative construction, a DepGraph-guided agent diagnoses failures observed while executing setup actions or the designated execution tar-get and uses the resulting feedback to refine both the graph and the persistent construction state. Once the designated execution target succeeds in the working environment, Graph2Env replays the resulting build script and restores recorded runtime conditions in a fresh environment to verify re-producibility. Appendix C provides a concrete example of this workflow. 3.1 DEP GRAPH CONSTRUCTION 

DepGraph Representation. DepGraph is a typed directed graph G = ( V, E ), which represents the environment requirements relevant to an execution target and their current satisfaction states. It con-tains a T ARGET node representing the designated execution target, together with requirement nodes typed as I MPORT , P ACKAGE , R UNTIME , T OOL , S YSTEM LIB , S ERVICE , or C ONFIG . I MPORT and PACKAGE capture language- and package-level requirements; R UNTIME , T OOL , and S YSTEM LIB 

capture the execution substrate; and S ERVICE and C ONFIG capture external services and runtime configuration. Edges encode prerequisite and mapping relationships. A prerequisite edge u → v

indicates that satisfying requirement u depends on prerequisite v and is directed from the dependent to its prerequisite. A mapping relationship connects a source-level requirement to the installable requirement that satisfies it, such as mapping the import docx to the package python-docx .Each requirement node is annotated as M ISSING or S ATISFIED when available evidence supports either state; when the evidence is insufficient, its state remains unclassified. In this way, DepGraph maintains an explicit view of what the repository requires, how those requirements depend on one another, and which requirements have already been satisfied. For example, Figure 2 shows a DepGraph for a repository whose execution target is to run its tests. The graph records requirements such as the yaml import, its mapped package pyyaml ,the pytest tool, the Python runtime, and runtime requirements such as the Redis service and 

REDIS URL configuration. Their relations and current states make explicit which requirements are already satisfied and which remain to be resolved before the target can execute. 

Initial DepGraph Construction. Initial DepGraph construction is performed programmatically be-fore the agent execution loop begins. Graph2Env first collects repository evidence from source-level imports, dependency manifests, build and CI files, service and configuration artifacts, and structured documentation. This evidence is converted into typed requirement nodes and known prerequisite and mapping relations. Graph2Env then performs dependency resolution to connect source-level requirements to installable packages and to identify additional package-level prerequisites under the relevant runtime and platform constraints. Specifically, Graph2Env uses Python package metadata to map source-level imports to installable distributions and uses uv to recursively resolve compatible direct and transitive package dependencies. When repository evidence and dependency resolution are insufficient, Graph2Env performs lightweight probing in a temporary isolated environment to resolve uncertain requirements or en-4Task Information   

> Repository Commit Base Environment

Initial DepGraph Construction    

> Repository Evidence Dependency resolution Lightweight probing
> Source Imports Dependency Manifests Build / CI Files Docs / Config Resolve Package Dependencies Temporary Environment Resolve Uncertain Requirements

DepGraph   

> requirements / relations / states
> prerequisite mapping
> satisfied
> ?missing
> Target
> run test
> Tool
> pytest

</> Import  

> yaml
> ?Service
> Redis
> ?
> Config
> REDIS_URL
> ?
> Package
> pyyaml
> ?
> Runtime
> Python 3.11
> SystemLib
> libyaml-dev
> ?
> compile

Build Script dependency-consistent actions     

> 1apt-get install libyaml-dev
> 2pip install pyyaml
> 3pip install pytest
> 4...
> Replayable Build Script
> update / recompile build script

Execution & Repair  

> Relevant Context
> DepGraph
> (subgraph)
> Build script
> (selected blocks)
> Inspect
> graph, script, and error
> Diagnose
> identify failure cause
> Repair
> apply targeted repair
> Re-execute
> relevant setup / target
> Iterative repair loop
> Execution Feedback
> Missing package: No module named 'yaml' Missing config: REDIS_URL not set Service unavailable: cannot connect to Redis, ... (LLM-based) refine DepGraph
> update states, requirements, and relations

Clean Replay  

> verify reproducibility in a fresh environment
> Fresh environment
> clean container / VM
> Replay Build Script
> run the generated script
> Restore Runtime Configuration
> environment variables / services
> Execute target
> Replay failure Replay success
> Verified reproducibility Additional
> execution feedback
> Terminate
> replay failure
> (additional execution feedback)
> docker container

Figure 2: Overview of Graph2Env. Repository information is analyzed through dependency res-olution and lightweight probing to construct DepGraph, which represents execution requirements, their relations, and satisfaction states. DepGraph is compiled into a replayable build script, and both provide structured context for execution and repair, while execution feedback refines the graph and updates the script. Once the designated target succeeds, Graph2Env replays the build script and re-stores runtime configuration in a fresh environment; replay success terminates construction, whereas replay failure returns additional feedback for further repair. vironment assumptions. These probes are used only to acquire evidence for graph construction; their effects are discarded before agent execution begins. The resulting initial DepGraph therefore provides the agent with an explicit construction state before iterative execution and repair starts. 3.2 DEP GRAPH -D RIVEN COMPILATION 

Given the current DepGraph, Graph2Env derives a setup-time action for each requirement whose resolved information determines an executable setup operation. For a requirement node v, the cor-responding action is represented as an ordered command sequence 

a(v) = ⟨c1, . . . , c m⟩.

Such actions may install language packages or system prerequisites, configure tools, or apply setup-time configuration; requirements without an executable setup operation contribute no action. For example, in Figure 1, the resolved package requirement python-docx>=1.1.0 yields the in-stallation action python3 -m pip install ’python-docx>=1.1.0’ , illustrating how requirement information in DepGraph is translated into executable setup. Graph2Env then orders these actions according to the dependency relations in DepGraph. For an edge u → v, where u de-pends on prerequisite v, the action for v precedes the action for u whenever both have executable ac-tions. Let v1, . . . , v k denote the requirements with executable actions in this dependency-consistent order. Graph2Env composes their actions into the replayable build script 

P = a(v1)∥a(v2)∥ · · · ∥ a(vk),

where ∥ denotes sequential concatenation. The resulting build script provides the initial executable setup for subsequent agent-guided construction. 3.3 DEP GRAPH -G UIDED EXECUTION AND REPAIR 

DepGraph-Guided Diagnosis and Repair. Starting from the initial DepGraph and compiled build script, Graph2Env employs an LLM agent that operates in a ReAct-style interaction loop (Yao et al., 2023) to iteratively execute, diagnose, and repair the repository environment. At each step, the agent observes the latest execution feedback and may selectively inspect relevant portions of DepGraph and the corresponding build-script blocks. Based on the available context, it selects and executes an action through the Graph2Env action interface (Appendix A), and uses the resulting observation to guide subsequent decisions. When an execution failure is observed, the agent combines the execution error message with the relevant requirements, dependency relations, states, and setup 5actions to diagnose the unresolved or incorrectly represented requirement. It then applies a targeted repair, for example by installing a missing dependency, modifying the relevant setup commands, or updating a required runtime condition, and re-executes the relevant setup or execution target to obtain new feedback. 

Execution-Grounded Graph Refinement. Execution feedback is used to refine Graph2Env’s cur-rent representation of the repository requirements. Evidence about an existing requirement can update its state, while newly observed failures may reveal missing requirements, incorrect pack-age mappings, or inaccurate dependency relations. Graph2Env updates DepGraph accordingly and recompiles the affected parts of the build script when the refinement changes executable setup infor-mation. 

Persistent Construction Artifacts. Repairs applied only to the current working environment may be lost when the environment is reconstructed, so Graph2Env records successful repairs in per-sistent construction artifacts rather than relying on transient environment state. Requirement and dependency information is retained in DepGraph, while setup-time repairs are incorporated into the build script and persistent runtime configuration is recorded alongside it when necessary. Once the designated target succeeds in the working environment, Graph2Env performs a clean replay: it re-plays the build script and restores the recorded runtime configuration in a fresh environment. If the replay successfully executes the designated target, Graph2Env considers the construction com-plete and terminates the agent loop; otherwise, the replay failure is returned as additional execution feedback and the repair process continues until clean replay succeeds or the run reaches either the maximum number of interaction steps or the time limit. 

## 4 EXPERIMENTS 

4.1 BENCHMARK 

Existing environment-construction benchmarks provide valuable repository collections, but they do not directly provide the test-count reference required by our evaluation protocol. In particular, nei-ther RATBench (Huang et al., 2026) nor EnvBench (Eliseeva et al., 2025) provides the number of tests that can be stably collected for each repository in a certified working environment. Without such a fixed reference, a method that fails to collect part of a repository’s test suite may be evaluated against a smaller test set induced by its own incomplete environment. To address this limitation, we construct a new evaluation benchmark from Python repositories drawn from RATBench and EnvBench. We focus on repositories whose execution requirements can be ad-dressed through software environment construction and that require non-trivial setup and repair. As a lightweight screening criterion, we prioritize repositories that the screening agent cannot con-figure within 10 interaction steps. These repositories typically require more than straightforward dependency installation and involve iterative diagnosis and repair. Because establishing reliable test counts requires multiple environment-construction attempts with a state-of-the-art coding agent, the certification process is computationally and financially expensive; we therefore limit the benchmark to 200 repositories. For each selected repository, we independently establish a gold test count using a state-of-the-art coding agent 2. The agent attempts to construct an environment in which pytest --collect-only succeeds. An agent-constructed environment is accepted only when integrity checks confirm that the repository has not been modified and repeated test collection yields a stable result. Across three independent attempts, we retain the largest successfully certified test collection and use its size as the repository’s gold test count. This fixed reference prevents a method from being evaluated against a smaller test set simply because its constructed environment fails to collect part of the repository’s tests. The complete certification protocol is provided in Appendix D.3. 

> 2Claude Code with Claude Opus 5. Based on per-million-token pricing as of September 2026, Claude Opus 5 costs $5.00 / $25.00 (input / output).

64.2 EVALUATION METRICS 

We adopt two metrics to evaluate the constructed environments: Environment Build Success Rate (EBSR) from Repo2Run (Hu et al., 2025) and Environment Setup Success Rate (ESSR) from RAT (Huang et al., 2026). 

Environment Build Success Rate (EBSR). EBSR (Hu et al., 2025) measures whether the con-structed environment makes the repository’s test suite executable, regardless of whether individual tests pass or fail. We report the percentage of repositories whose rebuilt image returns exit code 0 from pytest --collect-only .

Environment Setup Success Rate (ESSR). The EBSR evaluation checks if the test suite can be imported and discovered, but it does not execute the tests themselves. Some runtime requirements, such as external services, may only be exercised during test execution. ESSR (Huang et al., 2026) evaluates this second aspect by executing the test suite and measuring how much of the repository’s recorded behaviour can be reproduced. For repository r with certified gold test count Dr , we use the number of passing tests as the numerator, ESSR r = min(passed r , D r )/D r , and report the macro average. 4.3 BASELINES AND IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS 

We compare Graph2Env against six baselines spanning static dependency inference, specialized environment-configuration agents, and general-purpose coding agents. All agent systems, including Graph2Env, use DeepSeek-V4-Flash-0731 3 as the LLM backbone, with a limit of 100 LLM calls and two hours per repository. All baselines are evaluated by rebuilding their Dockerfile or equivalent build artifact in a fresh container to assess reproducibility. Detailed configurations, prompts, and invocations are provided in Appendix G. 

Static Dependency. pipreqs (bndr, 2015) serves as a static dependency-inference baseline. It scans repository source files to infer Python package requirements from imports and generates a 

requirements.txt without any execution feedback or iterative repair. We install the inferred requirements using a fixed Dockerfile template and evaluate the resulting environment under the same EBSR and ESSR protocol as the other methods. 

Environment Building Agents. Repo2Run (Hu et al., 2025) runs under its own default configu-ration; we supply the task, the model, and the step budget, and change nothing else. RAT (Huang et al., 2026) provides a specialized configuration toolset for repository inspection, test collection, and environment repair. We evaluate its dockerfile mode, which emits a recipe that rebuilds the configured environment from a clean base. SetupX (Zhou et al., 2026) carries setup experience across repositories. We initialize its experience store from the published pre-warmed one and make it read-only, so the arm retrieves prior experience but accumulates none and its repositories stay order-independent. 

Coding Agents. SWE-agent (Yang et al., 2024) is a general-purpose coding agent that explores a repository and edits files through a bash and file-editing interface. We instruct each agent to inspect the repository, install what it needs, and record the working setup as a Dockerfile. We also include 

Claude Code , a state-of-the-art agent harness, evaluated under the same prompt as SWE-agent. We score every baseline from the artifact it produces, never from what it reports about its own run. Four of the six configurations return a Dockerfile, which we rebuild in a fresh container with no agent present; both metrics are computed over the resulting image. 4.4 EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 

Table 1 reports EBSR, ESSR, mean tokens, and mean agent steps for all methods. Across all base-lines, Graph2Env achieves the highest EBSR and ESSR, at 81.0% and 59.3%. It outperforms Claude Code, the strongest baseline and a state-of-the-art coding agent, by 9.5 and 9.0 points, and SetupX, the strongest specialised repository environment-building agent, by 28.5 and 13.4 points. Notably, Claude Code outperforms all three specialized environment-building agents, while SWE-agent out-performs Repo2Run and RAT, suggesting that general-purpose coding agents can be competitive in repository environment construction even without being designed specifically for this task. 

> 3Based on per-million-token pricing via the official API, $0.22/$0.66 (input/output).

7Table 1: Environment construction success and agent token usage across baselines over the 200 repository benchmark. N/A marks a method that invokes no language model. Type Method EBSR ESSR Tokens (K) Steps Static Dependency pipreqs 10.0% 11.6% N/A N/A Environment Building Agents Repo2Run 42.5% 34.7% 1128.6 37.5 RAT 44.0% 40.4% 2066.2 62.0 SetupX 52.5% 45.9% 913.6 85.0 Coding agent SWE-agent 50.0% 35.6% 1894.7 71.7 Claude Code 71.5% 50.3% 1849.5 36.5 Ours Graph2Env 81.0% 59.3% 1397.8 34.1 

Table 2: EBSR and ESSR (%) by construction difficulty tier. n is the number of repositories. Graph2Env Claude Code Repo2Run Tier n EBSR ESSR EBSR ESSR EBSR ESSR Easy 62 93.5 79.8 87.1 70.1 66.1 53.8 Medium 86 82.6 57.5 75.6 48.3 40.7 30.5 Hard 43 69.8 41.9 51.2 33.1 18.6 20.8 We also observe that Graph2Env completes environment construction with an average of 34.1 agent steps per repository, the lowest among the evaluated agent-based methods. However, it does not consume the fewest tokens: SetupX and Repo2Run use 913.6K and 1128.6K tokens on average, re-spectively, compared with 1397.8K for Graph2Env. We attribute this to the DepGraph and compiled build script, which are included in the prompt. 

Success by difficulty. We further group the 191 repositories with a certified, recorded labelling session by construction difficulty, measured as the number of steps the labelling agent needed to establish each repository’s total test count: Easy ( ≤ 15 ), Medium ( 16 –45 ), and Hard ( ≥ 46 ). Graph2Env’s EBSR lead over Claude Code is 6.4 points on Easy repositories (93.5% vs. 87.1%) and 7.0 points on the Medium tier, and widens to 18.6 on the Hard tier (Table 2). The ESSR margin stays between 8.8 and 9.7 points across tiers. On the hardest repositories, Graph2Env builds an environment far more often, but passing the full test suite remains difficult for every system. Harder repositories require more system libraries, native build headers, and runtime configuration, resolved over longer repair sequences. DepGraph records which of these requirements are satisfied, and the build script keeps every repair, rather than leaving both to the agent’s interaction history. The results are consistent with our motivation: as construction requires longer repair sequences and involves more requirements, explicitly maintaining construction state becomes increasingly valuable relative to relying on interaction history alone. Table 3: SWE-agent with and without Dep-Graph as context, on all 200 repositories.         

> Configuration EBSR ESSR SWE-agent 50.0% 35.6% + graph context 62.0% ↑12.0 42.4% ↑6.8

Does DepGraph help other agents? DepGraph drives every stage of Graph2Env—planning, repair, and script compilation—so removing it leaves no working system to ablate against. Instead, we ask whether the information DepGraph captures is use-ful to an agent that was not designed around it. To evaluate it, we run SWE-agent on all 200 repositories with the same configuration as the baseline, but append Graph2Env’s initial DepGraph and the setup script compiled from it to its prompt; both are produced before Graph2Env’s repair loop. As shown in Table 3, the added context raises SWE-agent’s EBSR from 50.0% to 62.0% and its ESSR from 35.6% to 42.4%. DepGraph therefore carries useful setup information that a generic agent can utilize. However, SWE-agent with this context still trails Graph2Env (81.0% EBSR), suggesting that the usefulness of DepGraph lies not only in the information it initially captures, but also in its continuous refinement with execution feedback. 8Table 4: Environment-building failure per agent                         

> Failure G2E CC R2R No Dockerfile produced Time limit 10 016 Turn limit 610Agent stopped 260Image build fails 122 33 Test collection fails 17 27 61 Others 215
> Total 38 57 115
> G2E: Graph2Env, CC: Claude Code, R2R: Repo2Run.

Figure 3: Failing tests by error type, in environments built by Graph2Env. 0 20 40 60 Share of failing tests (%) OperationalError RuntimeError AssertionError ValueError AttributeError ImportError ModuleNotFoundError Other 

> 55.6% 21.9% 3.0% 1.3% 0.9% 0.9% 0.9% 15.5%

4.5 DISCUSSION 

Failure analysis. Although Graph2Env achieves the highest EBSR, it still fails on 38 of the 200 repositories (Table 1). We analyse failures at two levels: why a system fails to construct a working environment, that is, its rebuilt image does not pass test collection (Table 4); and, within environ-ments that do pass, why individual tests still fail at runtime (Figure 3). Graph2Env’s failures fall into two groups. In 16 of its 38 failures, the run exhausts its time or turn budget before exporting a Dockerfile, mostly on machine-learning and multi-service repositories whose packages are large and slow to install. The other 17 are collection failures, most of which pass Graph2Env’s own clean rebuild but fail under the shared evaluator, which collects the full repository tree rather than the test paths each repository declares; these reflect a mismatch between the two collection procedures rather than an environment that cannot load its tests. Only one of Graph2Env’s Dockerfiles fails to build, against 22 for Claude Code and 33 for Repo2Run, because Graph2Env accepts an environment only after replaying its build script and re-running the target in a fresh container. Claude Code instead accepts once collection succeeds in the container it has been modifying, which its Dockerfile may not reproduce, and Repo2Run exports a Dockerfile even when it exhausts its turn budget. The replay also explains the time limits: each replay repeats the full installation, which is costly on heavy repositories. Figure 3 shows the error types of failing tests in environments that Graph2Env successfully built. 

OperationalError (55.6%) mainly occurs when a required service is not running, for example a PostgreSQL server that was never started, and RuntimeError (21.9%) when runtime config-uration such as an environment variable is missing. Both requirements surface only when tests execute: pytest --collect-only imports test modules without starting fixtures or services, so an environment can pass collection while lacking them. Since most remaining failures stem from services and configurations that only matter at runtime, future work should explore more effective fault localization techniques, to help agents locate and fix runtime failures based on multimodal data such as error messages, logs, and agent trajectories. 

Generalizability . Our evaluation focuses on Python repositories and uses a single LLM backbone, which may limit the direct generalizability of the reported results. However, the core design of Graph2Env is not specific to Python or a particular LLM. DepGraph represents environment require-ments through general abstractions (such as runtimes, packages, and libraries) rather than language-specific assumptions. Extending Graph2Env to other programming ecosystems would primarily require ecosystem-specific mechanisms for extracting repository evidence, resolving dependencies, and compiling requirements into executable setup actions. Similarly, the approach is conceptually compatible with different LLM backbones and agent harnesses. Indeed, the improvement obtained by providing DepGraph context to SWE-agent suggests that the representation can benefit an agent other than the one used by Graph2Env. 

## 5 CONCLUSION 

We have presented Graph2Env, a stateful approach to repository environment construction that ex-plicitly maintains environment requirements and their dependencies through DepGraph. Experi-ments on a benchmark of 200 Python repositories drawn from RATBench and EnvBench show that 9Graph2Env improves both environment build success and downstream test execution over special-ized environment-construction systems and general-purpose coding agents. These results suggest that explicitly maintaining construction state provides a more reliable basis for iterative environ-ment construction than relying on the interaction trajectory alone. To facilitate replication, our source code and experimental data are available at https://anonymous.4open.science/ r/Graph2Env .AI USE STATEMENT 

Generative AI tools were used to assist with the implementation of research code, the analysis and interpretation of experimental results, and language editing of the manuscript. The research problem, core ideas, and method design were developed by the authors. AI-assisted code was reviewed and tested by the authors, and AI-assisted analyses were checked against the underlying experimental results and logs. All AI-assisted manuscript edits were reviewed and revised by the authors. LLMs and coding agents are also used as components of the proposed method and evaluation procedure; these uses are described separately in the corresponding method and experimental sections. REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT 

The anonymized source code for the core implementation of Graph2Env is available at https: //anonymous.4open.science/r/Graph2Env . Details of the evaluation set construction and gold test count certification are provided in Appendix D, while the experimental settings and baseline configurations are documented in Appendix G. 

## REFERENCES 

bndr. pipreqs: Generate pip requirements.txt file based on imports of any project. https://gi thub.com/bndr/pipreqs , 2015. Islem Bouzenia and Michael Pradel. You name it, i run it: An LLM agent to execute tests of arbitrary projects. Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering , 2(ISSTA):1054–1076, July 2025. doi: 10.1145/3728922. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3728922 .Aleksandra Eliseeva, Alexander Kovrigin, Ilia Kholkin, Egor Bogomolov, and Yaroslav Zharov. EnvBench: A benchmark for automated environment setup. In Third Workshop on Deep Learning for Code at ICLR 2025 , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=izy1oaAO eX .Lianghong Guo, Yanlin Wang, Caihua Li, Pengyu Yang, Jiachi Chen, Wei Tao, Yingtian Zou, Duyu Tang, and Zibin Zheng. Swe-factory: Your automated factory for issue resolution training data and evaluation benchmarks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.10954 , 2025. URL https://arxiv. org/abs/2506.10954 .Xinshuai Guo, Jiayi Kuang, Linyue Pan, Yinghui Li, Yangning Li, Hai-Tao Zheng, Ying Shen, Di Yin, and Xing Sun. EvoConfig: Self-evolving multi-agent systems for efficient autonomous environment configuration, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.16489 .Eric Horton and Chris Parnin. DockerizeMe: Automatic inference of environment dependencies for python code snippets. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Software Engineer-ing , pp. 328–338, 2019. doi: 10.1109/ICSE.2019.00047. Ruida Hu, Chao Peng, Xinchen Wang, Junjielong Xu, and Cuiyun Gao. Repo2Run: Automated building executable environment for code repository at scale. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 38, pp. 32679–32718. Curran Associates, Inc., 2025. doi: 10.52202 /085713-1096. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2 025/hash/2f2b1d6bbd50865eca40e2774a057eef-Abstract-Conference.ht ml .Renhong Huang, Dongdong Hua, Yifei Sun, Sitao Ding, Hanyang Yuan, Daixin Wang, and Yang Yang. RAT: RunAnyThing via fully automated environment configuration, 2026. URL https: //arxiv.org/abs/2604.23190 .10 Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R. Narasimhan. SWE-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024. URL https://openreview .net/forum?id=VTF8yNQM66 .Kenan Li, Rongzhi Li, Linghao Zhang, Qirui Jin, Liao Zhu, Xiaosong Huang, Geng Zhang, Yikai Zhang, Shilin He, Chengxing Xie, Xin Zhang, Zijian Jin, Bowen Li, Chaoyun Zhang, Yu Kang, Yufan Huang, Elsie Nallipogu, Saravan Rajmohan, Qingwei Lin, and Dongmei Zhang. Repo-Launch: Automating build and management of code repositories across languages and platforms, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.05026 .Yuxin Liu, Ziang Ye, Yueqing Sun, Mingye Zhu, Jinwei Xiao, Zhuowen Han, Qi Gu, Xunliang Cai, and Lei Zhang. MAP: A map-then-act paradigm for long-horizon interactive agent reasoning, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.13037 .Louis Milliken, Sungmin Kang, and Shin Yoo. Beyond pip install: Evaluating LLM agents for the automated installation of Python projects. In 2025 IEEE International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER) , pp. 1–11. IEEE, 2025. doi: 10.1109/SANER6 4311.2025.00009. URL https://doi.org/10.1109/SANER64311.2025.00009 .Joon Sung Park, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S. Bernstein. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology . Association for Computing Machinery, 2023. doi: 10.1145/3586183.3606763. URL https://doi.org/10 .1145/3586183.3606763 .Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. Reflex-ion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 36. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023. URL https://papers.neu rips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/hash/1b44b878bb782e6954cd88862851 0e90-Abstract-Conference.html .Chenhao Wei, Gengwu Zhao, Xinyi Li, Billy Ye, and Lu Xiao. Setup AGent (SAG): A dual-model LLM agent for autonomous end-to-end Java project configuration. In 2026 IEEE/ACM 48th International Conference on Software Engineering: New Ideas and Emerging Results (ICSE-NIER) , pp. 96–100. ACM, 2026. doi: 10.1145/3786582.3786818. URL https: //doi.org/10.1145/3786582.3786818 .Siyu Xia, Zekun Xu, Jiajun Chai, Wentian Fan, Yan Song, Xiaohan Wang, Guojun Yin, Wei Lin, Haifeng Zhang, and Jun Wang. From experience to strategy: Empowering LLM agents with trainable graph memory, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.07800 .John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press. SWE-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 37, pp. 50528–50652. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024. doi: 10.52202/079017-1601. URL https://proceedings.neur ips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/5a7c947568c1b1328ccc5230172e1 e7c-Abstract-Conference.html .Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R. Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) . OpenReview.net, 2023. URL https://op enreview.net/forum?id=WE_vluYUL-X .Hongjie Ye, Jiahong Zhou, Wei Chen, Jiaxin Zhu, Guoquan Wu, and Jun Wei. DockerGen: A knowledge graph based approach for software containerization. In 2021 IEEE 45th Annual Computers, Software, and Applications Conference (COMPSAC) , pp. 986–991, 2021. doi: 10.1109/COMPSAC51774.2021.00133. Zihang Zhou, Ziqian Ren, Yukai Wu, Yingjie Xiong, Wei Zhou, Chao Peng, Dong Zhang, Bingheng Yan, Xuanhe Zhou, and Fan Wu. SetupX: Can LLM agents learn from past failures in functionality-correct code repository setup?, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/26 05.26186 .11 A AGENT ACTION INTERFACE 

This appendix summarizes the complete action interface exposed to the Graph2Env Agent during environment construction and repair. 

Selective Inspection. At any step, the Agent may request complete, filtered, or selected views of DepGraph, and may inspect relevant setup blocks or bounded prior observations on demand. These interfaces expose the construction state and execution evidence pertinent to a decision without requiring the complete graph, build script, or interaction history to be injected into every context. 

Table 5: Agent-visible actions in the Graph2Env interface. Category Action Description Inspection inspect graph Returns the complete, filtered, or selected DepGraph view. Inspection inspect setup Returns the complete build script or a stable block for a specified node. Inspection inspect observation Returns a bounded exact slice of a prior raw execution observation. Execution run shell Runs an Agent-provided shell command in the selected construction container. Execution run block Runs the setup commands associated with one DepGraph node. Execution run setup Runs the current complete build script. Execution run collect Restores current runtime conditions and collects tests. Execution run test Restores current runtime conditions and runs tests. DepGraph update update graph Updates known requirements or adds newly discovered requirements and relations. Build-script update 

recompile setup Regenerates the build script from the current DepGraph. Build-script update 

update setup Appends, replaces, or updates a stable block in the build script. Runtime update update runtime Updates declared services, environment variables, and runtime capabilities. Candidate management 

create candidate Creates an isolated repair branch from the Active construction state. Candidate management 

validate candidate Runs the build script and/or target in the current candidate. Candidate management 

promote candidate Replaces the Active state with the current candidate state. Candidate management 

abort candidate Discards the current candidate repair branch. Verification run clean replay Replays the current build script, restores recorded runtime configuration, and executes the designated target in a fresh environment. Control action batch Executes a sequence of actions and stops at the first failed sub-action. Control finish Ends the Agent loop and records its completion reason. 

12 B DEP GRAPH AND COMPILATION DETAILS 

From Repository Evidence to Requirements. The evidence sources described in Section 3.1 pro-vide complementary information about the environment required by the execution target. Source-level imports identify modules used by the repository, whereas dependency manifests specify instal-lable packages and their version constraints. Build and CI files provide evidence about runtimes, tools, and setup procedures; service and configuration artifacts describe conditions required dur-ing execution. Structured documentation provides additional evidence where these conditions are not fully expressed in executable configuration. Graph2Env represents these observations as typed requirement nodes, with prerequisite and mapping relations connecting the corresponding require-ments. In particular, an imported module and an installable package remain distinct requirements: observing an import establishes a language-level need, but does not by itself establish which distri-bution provides it or whether that distribution is available in the environment. 

Import Mapping and Dependency Resolution. Import-to-distribution mapping connects source-level requirements to packages that can satisfy them. This distinction matters when module and distribution names differ, as in the mapping from docx to python-docx .Python package metadata provides evidence for these associations; for installed distributions, 

importlib.metadata.packages distributions() exposes the distributions associ-ated with each top-level module. Package resolution then determines compatible versions and ex-pands package-level prerequisites using uv , subject to the selected runtime and platform constraints. Direct requirements originate from repository evidence, while transitive requirements arise from the dependencies of the resolved packages. Both are represented in DepGraph, allowing a require-ment observed in repository code to be related to prerequisites that are not explicitly named there. Resolution identifies a candidate package configuration; whether it supports execution must still be established through observations from the environment. 

Evidence from Lightweight Probing. Probing supplements repository evidence when a require-ment cannot be determined from declarations or dependency resolution alone. In a temporary isolated environment, Graph2Env checks relevant runtime and platform properties and observes whether selected packages can be installed or imported. These observations can expose prerequi-sites that package declarations do not fully describe, including tools needed during installation and native libraries needed when a module is loaded. The resulting evidence refines the requirements and relations recorded in DepGraph. These observations describe the temporary probe environment and serve as evidence for subsequent construction. The environment and its modifications are discarded before agent execution; only the resulting requirement information and observations are retained. 

Compilation Details. For each requirement node with a known executable setup procedure, a(v)

denotes its ordered command sequence. Graph2Env derives these commands by instantiating pre-defined installation and configuration rules with information obtained from repository evidence and dependency resolution, such as package names, version constraints, and tool requirements. Ap-plicable setup commands extracted from repository build and CI files can also supply steps in the sequence. During subsequent repair, the agent may revise or extend these commands in response to execution feedback. Such procedures may install packages, set up tools or system prerequisites, or apply setup-time configuration; not every requirement node has an executable action. Graph2Env orders the actions using prerequisite relations, with an edge u → v indicating that 

a(v) should precede a(u) when both requirements have executable actions. The ordering procedure prioritizes actions whose prerequisite actions have already been scheduled. The resulting actions are concatenated into the replayable build script, preserving the command order within each action. Persistent runtime conditions, such as environment variables and service startup requirements, are maintained separately from the build script and restored when the designated target is executed. 

## C AN EXAMPLE OF GRAPH 2E NV 

Figure 4 shows how Graph2Env constructs an environment for rq/rq at revision eacec8ff9109 

to run pytest --collect-only : requirement discovery, DepGraph compilation, execution-guided repair, and clean replay. 13 A. Initial construction 

Repository evidence 

pyproject.toml .github/workflow.yml tests/__init__.py 

Target: pytest --collect-only 

Initial DepGraph 

rq project 

> Project dependencies Build tools

Redis service 

> Known requirement Unmet
> REDIS_HOST
> Known requirement Unmet

? ?

Compiled script 

1 apt-get update 

2 apt-get install build-essential 

3 pip install -e .

4 # Unmet: Redis service 

5 # Unmet: REDIS_HOST 

Abbreviated setup actions 

> Extract / resolve requirements

Compile ordered actions 

B. Agent execution and persistent repair 

Main event stream DepGraph and artifact changes 

[1] Execute initial setup 

Action 

• Run setup.sh • Run pytest --collect-only 

Observation 

• Project installation succeeds • pytest: command not found 

[2] Inspect requirements 

Action 

• Inspect dependency nodes and setup blocks • Read test initialization code 

Observation 

• Test dependencies are incomplete 

• Confirm Redis is required during test import 

[3] Repair the candidate 

Action 

• Install pytest and test dependencies • Install and start Redis 

Observation 

pytest is available Redis is running 

[4] Synchronize graph and script 

Action 

• Update requirements and setup actions • Recompile and inspect setup.sh 

Observation 

• Redis installation is absent from the compiled script 

[5] Persist the effective repair 

Action 

• Add redis-server package and prerequisite edge 

• Recompile setup.sh 

• Record service startup and REDIS_HOST 

Observation 

Redis installation is included in setup.sh Runtime conditions are saved 

[6] Validate the candidate 

Action 

• Replay setup in a candidate container 

• Restore runtime conditions and collect tests 

Observation 

Redis check: PONG 690 tests collected 

DepGraph refinement Graph snapshot 

rq project 

Redis service redis-server package 

+

requires 

requires 

Updated build script 

1 #@node deps:pypi:. 

2 pip install pytest ... 

3 #@node pkg:redis-server 

Recompile 

Runtime configuration Recorded in event 5 

C. Clean replay 

Fresh environment 

Updated build script 

Replay build script 

Restore Redis and environment variables 

Execute  

> pytest --collect-only

Clean replay succeeds 

690 tests collected 

> Config

REDIS_HOST 

> requires

+ Package node with executable setup actions Test-dependency setup actions updated 

4 #@check redis-server --version 

5 apt-get install -y redis-server 

Node-linked setup actions (abbreviated) 

Environment REDIS_HOST=localhost 

Start if stopped redis-server --daemonize yes 

Health check redis-cli ping 

> Lightweight probing

Figure 4: An environment construction example for rq/rq . (A) Initial requirement discovery and DepGraph-driven compilation. (B) Execution-guided repair updates the graph, build script, and runtime configuration. (C) Clean replay reconstructs the environment and successfully collects 690 tests. 

Initial construction (A). Panel A illustrates how Graph2Env gathers evidence from repository metadata, build and workflow configurations, and test code to identify environment requirements. Graph2Env constructs the initial DepGraph through requirement discovery and dependency reso-lution, then compiles its available setup actions into a build script. Redis and REDIS HOST are already recorded as requirements, although their setup procedures remain incomplete. 

Execution and persistent repair (B). Execution exposes missing test dependencies. The agent inspects the graph and test code, installs the required dependencies, and starts Redis. Inspection of the recompiled script reveals that Redis installation has not yet been preserved. The agent there-14 fore adds a redis-server package node and its prerequisite relation, recompiles the script, and records the runtime configuration. Validation then successfully collects 690 tests. 

Clean replay (C). Graph2Env replays the updated script in a fresh environment, restores the recorded runtime configuration, and successfully collects 690 tests again. This verifies that the persisted construction artifacts reproduce an environment supporting the designated collection tar-get. 

## D DATASET CONSTRUCTION AND ANALYSIS 

D.1 CORPUS COMPOSITION AND SCALE 

We report summary statistics of the benchmark to characterize the diversity of the selected reposito-ries. The benchmark comprises 200 Python repositories drawn from RATBench (Huang et al., 2026) and EnvBench (Eliseeva et al., 2025) under the selection criteria of Section 4.1: 100 RATBench-sampled and 100 EnvBench-sampled repositories, each pinned to a fixed commit. No repository is sampled from both benchmarks. 

Language scope. All repositories are Python projects. Python accounts for a median 99% of a repository’s source lines, but 54 of the 200 repositories contain more than 10% non-Python code (C/C++, Cython, JavaScript, or shell), typically native extensions or bundled front ends that must be compiled or resolved before tests can import. 10 KB 100 KB 1 MB 10 MB 100 MB 1 GB 

Code size (log scale)      

> 0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
> % of repositories (n=200)  median 1.28 MB 100 1k 10k 100k 1M 10M

Lines of code (log scale) 

> median 27k

Figure 5: Scale of the 200 benchmark repositories (RATBench- and EnvBench-sampled, pooled). Left: code size ( code bytes , GitHub’s per-language byte count; median 1.28 MB, IQR 589 KB– 3.62 MB). Right: non-blank lines of source code at the pinned commit, excluding vendored and minified files (median 27k, IQR 13k–88k). The two measures agree closely (Spearman ρ = 0 .89 ). 

Repository size distribution. We measure size in two ways: code bytes, as reported by GitHub’s per-language statistics (excluding non-code assets), and lines of code (LoC), counted as non-blank lines in source files at the pinned commit, excluding vendored and minified files. Figure 5 shows both distributions. Repositories span more than three orders of magnitude, from 961 to 4.7M LoC, with a median of 1.28 MB (IQR 589 KB–3.62 MB) and 27k LoC (IQR 13k–88k). The two measures agree closely (Spearman ρ = 0 .89 ). Using the size tiers of RATBench (Huang et al., 2026), 35 repositories are Small ( <500 KB), 125 Medium (500 KB–5 MB), and 40 Large ( >5 MB). The two samples differ in scale: RATBench-sampled repositories skew larger (median 2.0 MB; 33 of the 40 Large), while EnvBench-sampled repositories account for most of the Small tier (23 of 35). Size matters for environment construction because larger repositories reach further outside the Python package manager, into system libraries and native toolchains. 15 Table 7: Application domains of the 200 benchmark repositories. Each repository is assigned one primary domain from its PyPI Topic classifiers where they give a unique majority, and otherwise by an LLM from its description, GitHub topics, and README.                

> Data/ML Dev tools Scientific Web Infra/DB Security Other Total Repos 46 38 35 32 30 415 200

Table 6: GitHub stars.      

> Stars % of repos
> <100 22% 100–1k 31% 1k–10k 36%
> >10k 11%

Repository popularity distribution. Popularity, measured by GitHub stars, is long-tailed (range 12 to 155,569; median 786, mean 4,536). The corpus spans the full range (Table 6): 44 repositories have fewer than 100 stars, 62 have 100–1k, 72 have 1k–10k, and 22 exceed 10k. The benchmark is therefore not confined to either little-known repositories, which are often under-documented, or widely used projects, which often ship mature CI and container configura-tions. D.2 APPLICATION DOMAINS 

Domain distribution. We assign each repository one primary application domain, defined by what the software is for rather than the tools it is built with. Table 7 shows the distribution. No single domain accounts for more than 23% of the corpus: data and machine learning (46), developer tools (38), scientific computing (35), web applications and APIs (32), and infrastructure and database clients (30) are each well represented, with 19 repositories in security or other domains. The two samples are complementary. EnvBench-sampled repositories account for most of the scientific (28 of 35) and developer-tool (24 of 38) repositories, while RATBench-sampled repositories account for most of the data/ML (30 of 46) and infrastructure (24 of 30) repositories. Combining the two benchmarks therefore yields a more balanced domain mix than either provides alone. D.3 GOLD TEST COUNT CERTIFICATION 

We describe how the gold test count of Section 4.1 is established for each repository. The count is fixed before any evaluated system is run and does not depend on any of them. 

Acceptance criteria. An environment is certified only if it satisfies three conditions. First, 

pytest --collect-only exits with status 0 on two independent executions in the built image. Second, both executions return the identical set of test node IDs, which rejects environments whose collection depends on execution order or state. Third, every tracked file in the repository has the same hash before the build and inside the built image, so the count cannot be raised by adding, re-moving, or editing tests or their configuration. The gold test count is the size of the certified node-ID set. 

Procedure and budget. For each repository at its pinned commit, a coding agent is given a single objective: produce an environment that meets the acceptance criteria and collects as many tests as possible. The agent may edit only the Dockerfile, starting from a seed that copies the source tree onto a python:3.11-slim base image and attempts an editable install; a session that did not reach certification could be continued from the Dockerfile it left behind. Each session is limited to one hour of wall-clock time with no turn limit, and when several sessions were run, the accepted one collecting the most tests is retained. The retained sessions took a median of 7.0 minutes and $1.05 per repository. D.4 CERTIFICATION AGENT CONFIGURATION 

The certifying agent is driven as a headless CLI in a container holding the repository at its pinned revision. Each repository receives three independent attempts; the Dockerfile is reset to the seed between attempts, and there is no turn limit.   

> #model: claude-opus-5

16 # attempts: 3 per repository, Dockerfile reset to seed between attempts # budget: no turn limit; 3600 s wall-clock per attempt claude -p "<task prompt below>" \--dangerously-skip-permissions \--model <model> \--output-format stream-json --verbose 

The agent starts from the following seed Dockerfile, so every package, system library, and environ-ment variable in a certified Dockerfile was added by the agent. 

FROM <base> WORKDIR /src COPY . /src RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -e . || pip install --no-cache-dir . || true 

The task prompt is reproduced verbatim. 

You are configuring a reproducible test-COLLECTION environment for aPython repository. Your ONLY editable file is ‘Dockerfile‘ in this directory. Your goal: make the repository’s full pytest suite collect cleanly and maximally. SUCCESS CRITERION. Run ‘./verify‘. It builds your Dockerfile from scratch , runs ‘pytest --collect-only‘ inside the image twice, and reports: - ‘accepted: true‘ when collection is clean (no collection errors) and stable across both runs. REQUIRED. - ‘collected=N‘ | number of tests collected. MAXIMIZE this. - ‘import_skipped=[modules]‘ | modules pytest skipped at import time, usually a missing optional dependency hiding real tests. You are done when ‘./verify‘ reports accepted AND ‘collected‘ is as high as it will go | i.e. ‘import_skipped‘ contains only modules that are genuinely optional or whose dependency truly cannot be installed. Aclean collection that hides half the suite behind missing deps is aFAILURE, not a pass. THE ONLY LEVER IS THE ENVIRONMENT. ‘pytest --collect-only‘ works by IMPORTING every test module, so collection fails or shrinks only because the environment is missing something: a collection error (ImportError/ModuleNotFoundError) means a dependency isn’t installed; an import-skipped module means an optional dep behind importorskip (...) isn’t installed. The fix is always to install the missing dependency in the Dockerfile | read the failing import in the traceback, find the PyPI or apt package that provides it, and add it. SERVICES (databases, brokers, etc.). ‘pytest --collect-only‘ only imports modules | it never runs tests or fixtures | so tests needing a live service (Redis, Postgres, RabbitMQ, ...) to PASS still collect fine without that service running. Install the service’s Python CLIENT LIBRARY (e.g. redis, psycopg2-binary, pika) when a module fails to import it, but do NOT try to start the actual database/broker: it isn ’t needed for collection, and collection runs with NO network access. The one exception is a module that opens a connection at import time (top-level code, not inside a test or fixture) | live services can’t be provided during collection, so leave those in import_skipped, install the client library, and move on. RULES. - Edit ONLY the ‘Dockerfile‘. Do NOT touch tests, conftest.py, pyproject. toml, pytest.ini, setup.cfg, tox.ini, or any source file. The harness restores all of these to their pinned originals and hash-checks them 

17 before certifying | any edit you make is reverted and rejected, so it cannot help you. - Do NOT fake a clean collection by hiding tests: no --ignore/-k/-m/--deselect, no collect_ignore/norecursedirs, no deleting or emptying test files or narrowing paths. All rejected. The only path that works is installing dependencies. - Do NOT install anything that randomizes collection (e.g. pytest-randomly); the node-ID set must be identical across both runs. - Do NOT run test bodies | only collection matters; tests never need to pass, only to be importable. - The Dockerfile must build cleanly from scratch; no reliance on host state. SUGGESTED WORKFLOW. Run ‘./verify‘ -> read the first traceback -> install the missing import in the Dockerfile, preferring the repo’s DECLARED test/dev groups first (‘pip install -e .[test]‘/‘[dev]‘/‘[all]‘, requirements-dev.txt, test-requirements.txt) and ‘apt-get install‘ for C-library imports -> re-run. Repeat until accepted and ‘import_skipped‘ is minimal. Declared dependency groups usually close most collection gaps at once. ZERO COLLECTION ERRORS | THERE IS NO PARTIAL CREDIT. The gate requires pytest to exit 0 on BOTH runs. ONE un-importable test module rejects the ENTIRE repository, no matter how many thousands of tests collected around it. So never stop at the first traceback: after each ‘./verify‘, enumerate EVERY distinct error and fix them all. A big repo routinely hides a dozen unrelated missing distributions behind the first one, and a run that fixes nine of ten scores exactly the same as one that fixes none. HARD LIMITS OF THE COLLECTION SANDBOX. ‘./verify‘ collects inside alocked-down container: NO NETWORK (‘--network none‘), 2 CPUs, 4 GB RAM, 512 processes, all capabilities dropped. Design the Dockerfile around this: - Everything a module needs AT IMPORT must be baked in at BUILD time. Nothing can be fetched during collection | no pip, no model weights, no fixture data, no NLTK/HuggingFace caches. Pre-fetch it in a RUN layer. - Importing a heavyweight framework (torch, tensorflow, jax) can exhaust the 4 GB cap; the OOM surfaces as a confusing collection error or akilled process, not an ImportError. Prefer CPU-only wheels (‘ tensorflow-cpu‘, torch’s ‘+cpu‘ index) | they import in a fraction of the memory. - A module that opens a socket at import time cannot be satisfied (no network). Install its client library anyway; that is often enough, because the connection is usually built lazily inside a fixture. STABILITY | THE NODE-ID SET MUST BE IDENTICAL ACROSS THE TWO RUNS. If ‘./ verify‘ reports the set unstable, something is nondeterministic: parametrize IDs derived from set/dict iteration, a timestamp, a uuid, a tempfile name, or filesystem glob order | or an installed plugin that generates tests dynamically. ‘ENV PYTHONHASHSEED=0‘ fixes the most common case (hash-order-dependent IDs). A repo can collect tens of thousands of tests cleanly and STILL be rejected on this clause alone, so if you see it, fix it | it is not cosmetic. 

## E IMAGE SIZE 

Beyond whether an environment builds, we record the size of each successfully built image, since smaller images are cheaper to store, transfer, and start at scale. As shown in Table 8, Graph2Env produces the most buildable Dockerfiles (180, vs. 171 for the strongest baseline, Claude Code), but its images are larger on average (3309.8 MB vs. 983.6 MB). 18 Table 8: Built Dockerfiles and image size across baselines over the 200 repositories. # Built counts Dockerfiles that built successfully; Image (MB) is the mean over built images. Type Method # Built Image (MB) Static Dependency pipreqs 111 1616.5 Environment Building Agents Repo2Run 147 4145.5 RAT 159 1577.0 SetupX 126 1595.5 Coding agent SWE-agent 111 1309.4 Claude Code 171 983.6 Ours Graph2Env 180 3309.8 Inspecting its setup scripts, we find that Graph2Env installs a compiler toolchain in 139 of 200 repositories so that source builds succeed, and seldom clears the pip or apt caches afterwards (7 and 1 repositories, respectively). Both choices increase size without affecting whether the environment works, and could be removed with a post-install cleanup step. 

## F ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENT RESULTS 

Results by domain. Table 9 reports EBSR and ESSR by application domain. Graph2Env achieves the highest EBSR and ESSR in five of the seven domains. Its largest EBSR margin is on web repositories (96.9% against 65.6% for Claude Code), and its smallest are on scientific (2.9 points) and infrastructure (3.3 points) repositories. Claude Code leads on the security and other domains, which together contain 19 repositories. Data/ML repositories are among the most difficult for all three methods. 

Results by repository size. Table 10 reports the same metrics by code size. Success decreases with size for every method: Graph2Env’s EBSR falls from 100.0% on small repositories to 83.2% on medium and 57.5% on large ones. Graph2Env achieves the highest EBSR and ESSR in every size tier, with an EBSR margin over Claude Code of 7.5 to 10.4 points. 

Successful and failed runs. Figure 6 compares the action distribution of successful and failed runs. Successful runs are shorter (median 27.5 actions against 89) and allocate more of their actions to inspection (15.2% against 9.0%) and DepGraph updates (4.8% against 2.5%), whereas failed runs spend more on execution (67.2% against 59.1%). Harder repositories may both fail and require longer runs, so this pattern is correlational. 

Use of construction state. Most shell activity is diagnostic: 81% of run shell calls are de-clared read-only. Changes to the environment are recorded in persistent artifacts, with more persis-tence actions than state-changing shell commands. DepGraph is maintained throughout construc-tion: it is updated in 164 of the 189 repositories with a recorded action trace (Figure 6) and inspected in 136, at a cost of about 9% of all actions. Table 9: EBSR / ESSR (%) by application domain. n is the number of repositories in each domain.                

> Data/ML Dev tools Scientific Web Infra/DB Security Other Method (n=46) (n=38) (n=35) (n=32) (n=30) (n=4) (n=15) Repo2Run 23.9 / 22.0 60.5 / 58.5 45.7 / 39.2 43.8 / 33.1 43.3 / 26.6 50.0 / 24.9 40.0 / 24.8 Claude Code 60.9 / 40.0 73.7 / 71.5 85.7 / 56.5 65.6 / 40.6 66.7 / 41.9 75.0 / 32.4 86.7 / 55.4 Graph2Env 69.6 / 46.7 89.5 / 82.0 88.6 / 62.7 96.9 / 58.8 70.0 / 53.4 75.0 / 27.6 66.7 / 54.1

## G AGENT SETTINGS 

This appendix gives the exact configuration of each baseline arm in Section 4.3. 19 Table 10: EBSR / ESSR (%) by repository code size. 

Small Medium Large Method (<500 KB, n=35) (500 KB–5 MB, n=125) (>5 MB, n=40) Repo2Run 74.3 / 58.1 41.6 / 35.1 17.5 / 12.8 Claude Code 91.4 / 71.0 72.8 / 51.7 50.0 / 27.6 Graph2Env 100.0 / 76.7 83.2 / 63.0 57.5 / 32.6 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 

Share of executed actions (%) 

Control (finish) Runtime update Protocol error Verification (clean replay) DepGraph update Candidate management Combined repair (commit_repair) Build-script update Inspection (graph, setup, observations) Execution (shell, setup, collect, tests) 

> 0.8% 1.5% 0.1% 3.6% 4.8% 5.6% 3.6% 5.7% 15.2% 59.1% 0.3% 0.7% 5.5% 2.4% 2.5% 3.0% 5.1% 4.3% 9.0% 67.2%

Successful runs (n=162) Failed runs (n=27) 

Figure 6: Distribution of Graph2Env’s executed actions by category, for successful (EBSR = 1, 

n=162) and failed ( n=27) runs. The remaining 11 failed runs (10 at the time limit, 1 crashed) were terminated before their action trace was written and are excluded. Each bar is the share of that group’s actions. Actions issued inside an action batch are counted individually; the batch itself is not. Categories follow Table 5. 20 G.1 PIPREQS 

pipreqs 0.4.13 scans the repository at its pinned commit and writes the imported third-party packages to a requirements file. It uses no LLM and receives no execution feedback. We use no-pin mode, which lists bare package names rather than pinning them to the newest PyPI release at scan time, so that reruns on the same commit produce the same file.                       

> #pipreqs 0.4.13, run on the repository at its pinned commit python -m pipreqs.pipreqs <repo> \--savepath requirements_pipreqs.txt \--force \--ignore .venv,venv,env \--mode no-pin \--encoding utf-8-sig

The requirements are installed with a fixed Dockerfile template. A requirement that fails to install fails the build.                                 

> FROM python:3.10 WORKDIR /RUN pip install pytest pytest-xdist RUN git clone <repo_url>.git /testbed RUN git -C /testbed fetch --depth 1origin <commit> \&& git -C /testbed checkout --detach <commit> WORKDIR /testbed COPY requirements_pipreqs.txt /requirements_pipreqs.txt RUN pip install -r /requirements_pipreqs.txt

G.2 REPO 2R UN 

Repo2Run at commit 65042aa , run under its own default configuration. We supply the task, the model, and the turn budget; its prompts, tool definitions, and control flow are upstream stock.                    

> #repo2run @65042aa --github.com/bytedance/repo2run python3 build_agent/main.py \--full_name <owner/repo> \--sha <dataset base commit> \--root_path <run directory> \--num_turn 100 \--llm deepseek/deepseek-v4-flash-0731

G.3 SETUP XSetupX at 85de355. SetupX produces no Dockerfile. It mutates a live container and records the surviving commands to a history file, which we replay onto a pinned clone to obtain a build arti-fact comparable to the other baselines. SetupX also maintains an experience store that carries setup experience between repositories. We initialize it from the pre-warmed store published in the offi-cial repository and make it read-only for the evaluation, so the arm retrieves prior experience but accumulates none across the benchmark run.                         

> #SetupX @85de355 LLM_PROVIDER=openai OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.deepseek.com/v1 OPENAI_MODEL=deepseek-v4-flash-0731 SETUPX_MAX_LLM_CALLS=100 #added; counts completions, not agent steps DOCKER_BASE_IMAGE=python:3.10 #SetupX’s own default DOCKER_WORK_DIR=/workspace #repository at /workspace/repo SETUPX_DB_DSN=<dsn> #set: XPU experience store on; unset: off

21 XPU_ENABLED=1 XPU_VECTOR_ENABLED=1 XPU_READONLY=1 # added; disables experience writeback 

G.4 RAT RAT at commit 747adef , run under its own default configuration with save mode set to 

dockerfile , so that it emits a Dockerfile that rebuilds the environment from a clean base. 

# RAT @ 747adef -- github.com/gemelom/RunAnyThing python env_main.py \--full_name <owner/repo> \--root_path <run directory> \--num_turn 100 \--llm deepseek/deepseek-v4-flash-0731 \--save_mode dockerfile # upstream defaults, unchanged: # --timeout 300 --test-timeout 600 # --hitl, --use-dockerfile, --custom-plan, --use-uv all off 

G.5 SWE-AGENT 

SWE-agent 1.1.0 under its own config/default.yaml harness. The effective configuration is reproduced below with the runtime overrides folded in. Its two task-carrying templates are ported from Repo2Run, with {{ task details }} rebound to the variable SWE-agent provides and Repo2Run’s trailing shell-prompt markers dropped, since this arm does not use their system template. 

# env: OPENROUTER_PROVIDER=DeepInfra # pins the upstream provider behind OpenRouter agent: model: name: openrouter/deepseek/deepseek-v4-flash-0731 per_instance_cost_limit: 2.0 per_instance_call_limit: 100 temperature: 0.2 # SWE-agent default is 0.0 completion_kwargs: extra_body: thinking: type: disabled # DeepSeek v4 enables reasoning by default templates: system_template: |-You are a helpful assistant that can interact with a computer to solve tasks. instance_template: |-We’re currently setting up the environment for the following task. Here are the details: TASK: {{problem_statement}} INSTRUCTIONS: Now, you’ll carry out this task on your own. Your terminal session has begun in the repository’s root directory. Use the provided commands and any bash commands 

22 you need. Edit and check files as needed. The goal is to generate a Dockerfile that can successfully build and run the tests in the repository using the command "pytest --collect-only -q ". NOTE: 1. The repository is cloned into /repo. 2. The Dockerfile should start with the following lines (if the base image is python:3.10 and repository is adamobeng/wddbfs): ‘‘‘ FROM python:3.10 RUN pip install pytest RUN git clone https://github.com/adamobeng/wddbfs.git RUN mkdir /repo RUN git config --global --add safe.directory /repo RUN cp -r /wddbfs/. /repo && rm -rf /wddbfs/ RUN rm -rf /wddbfs ‘‘‘ Your task includes: 0. **Generate Dockerfile**: Create a file named "Dockerfile" in the root path (e.g, the absolute path is /Dockerfile). 1. **Read Directory Structure**: Check the folder structure in the root directory. 2. **Check the Configuration Files**: Inspect files like "requirements.txt", "setup.py", "setup.cfg", "Pipfile*", etc. 3. **Determine Package Dependencies**: Handle dependencies and manage conflicting dependency versions. 4. **Testing**: Ensure "pytest /repo --collect-only -q" runs without errors. 5. **Generate Dockerfile**: Write necessary installation or setup steps determined from the inspection. If you finish run testing successfully, you should modify the Dockerfile in /Dockerfile. IMPORTANT TIPS: * Check the directory and files carefully. * Make sure Dockerfile commands are correct. * Use proper Dockerfile syntax and indentation. * Test the final Dockerfile by running "pytest /repo --collect-only -q". problem_statement_template: |-Set up the environment for the {{language}} repository {{full_name }} ({{repo_url}}) so that its test suite can be collected and run, and record the working setup as a Dockerfile at /Dockerfile. next_step_template: |-OBSERVATION: {{observation}} next_step_no_output_template: |-Your command ran successfully and did not produce any output. tools: execution_timeout: 600 # upstream default: 30 total_execution_timeout: 7200 # upstream default: 1800 env_variables: PAGER: cat MANPAGER: cat 

23 LESS: -R PIP_PROGRESS_BAR: ’off’ TQDM_DISABLE: ’1’ GIT_PAGER: cat bundles: - path: tools/registry - path: tools/edit_anthropic - path: tools/submit # default.yaml also ships review_on_submit_m; dropped registry_variables: USE_FILEMAP: ’true’ enable_bash_tool: true parse_function: type: function_calling env: deployment: type: docker image: python:3.10 remove_container: false remove_images: false repo: type: local path: <repository at the pinned base commit> 

G.6 SWE-AGENT WITH DEP GRAPH CONTEXT 

This arm is identical to SWE-agent (Appendix G.5) except for one context block appended to the end of its task prompt. The block inlines Graph2Env’s initial DepGraph and the build script com-piled from it, both produced before Graph2Env’s repair loop, and the full graph is available in the container for the agent to query. The agent is told the context may be incomplete, and it must still write its own Dockerfile. 

ADDITIONAL CONTEXT. Produced before your session, for reference, in this container under /g2e/ (these files are not available when your Dockerfile is built): - /g2e/setup.sh setup commands compiled for base image <base image> - /g2e/runtime_handoff.json environment the compiled commands expect at test time - /g2e/depgraph.json, /g2e/depgraph_full.json (every package leaf), /g2e/ depgraph_advisory.txt An advisory dependency graph of this repository, derived from static analysis: what it needs for environment setup. It is advisory, not ground truth | it may be incomplete or wrong, so verify before relying on it. Query the JSON with grep or python3 -c when the advisory below is not specific enough; these files can be large, so pull out the nodes you need rather than printing one whole. <depgraph_advisory.txt: goal, unsatisfied requirements with evidence and candidate fixes, summary of satisfied requirements> <setup.sh: the compiled build script> 

24 G.7 CLAUDE CODE 

Claude Code is driven as a CLI inside a container, working as a non-root user with 

sudo . The repository is placed at /testbed and the deliverable is a Dockerfile written to 

/testbed/Dockerfile.gen .

# env: ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL=https://api.deepseek.com/anthropic # ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=<key> # DISABLE_AUTOUPDATER=1 claude -p \--model sonnet \--max-turns 100 \--permission-mode bypassPermissions \--output-format stream-json --verbose --include-partial-messages We’re currently setting up the environment for the following task. Here are the details: TASK: Set up the environment for the Python repository {full_name} (https:// github.com/{full_name}) so that its test suite can be collected, and record the working setup as a Dockerfile at /testbed/Dockerfile.gen. INSTRUCTIONS: Now, you’ll carry out this task on your own. Your session has begun in the repository’s root directory. Use any bash commands you need. Edit and check files as needed .The goal is to generate a Dockerfile that can successfully build and run the tests in the repository using the command "pytest --collect-only -q". NOTE: 1. The repository is cloned into /testbed. 2. The Dockerfile should start with the following lines (if the base image is python:3.11 and the repository is adamobeng/wddbfs): ‘‘‘ FROM python:3.11 RUN pip install pytest RUN git clone https://github.com/adamobeng/wddbfs.git /testbed WORKDIR /testbed ‘‘‘ 3. The build runs as ROOT from an EMPTY image: drop every ‘sudo‘ prefix from the commands you write into the Dockerfile, and do not rely on any file from this container. 4. Install into the system Python -- do NOT create a virtualenv, since the grader runs the system python3. Your task includes: 0. **Generate Dockerfile**: Create the Dockerfile at /testbed/Dockerfile. gen. 1. **Read Directory Structure**: Check the folder structure in the root directory. 2. **Check the Configuration Files**: Inspect files like "requirements. txt", "setup.py", "setup.cfg", "Pipfile*", etc. 

25 3. **Determine Package Dependencies**: Handle dependencies and manage conflicting dependency versions. 4. **Testing**: Ensure "python -m pytest /testbed --co -q" runs without errors. 5. **Generate Dockerfile**: Write necessary installation or setup steps determined from the inspection. If you finish run testing successfully, you should modify the Dockerfile in /testbed/Dockerfile.gen. IMPORTANT TIPS: * Check the directory and files carefully. * Make sure Dockerfile commands are correct. * Use proper Dockerfile syntax and indentation. * Test the final Dockerfile by running "python -m pytest /testbed --co -q ". 

## H METRICS PROTOCOL 

Every method is scored by the same harness, which measures the Dockerfile the method produces rather than any result the method reports. 

Rebuild. Each Dockerfile is rebuilt from scratch in a fresh container, with the repository checked out at its pinned commit under /testbed . A repository whose image fails to build scores 0 on both metrics and remains in the denominator. 

EBSR gate. Test collection runs from /testbed with no path argument, so the repository’s own 

testpaths configuration applies. Following Repo2Run (Hu et al., 2025), the gate passes on exit code 0 (tests collected). 

python -m pytest --collect-only -q --disable-warnings 

ESSR run. The full test suite is then executed in the same container, with a per-test timeout of 120 s and a 1800 s limit on the whole run. Passing tests are counted from the JUnit report, and 

ESSR r = min(passed r , D r )/D r is averaged over repositories (Section 4.2). 

python -m pytest -q --continue-on-collection-errors \--junit-xml=logs/junit.xml \--timeout=120 --timeout-method=signal 

## I DATASET CORPUS 

Table 11: Benchmark repositories with their pinned commit and gold test count (Section 4.1). Repository name Commit sha # Tests adamchainz/django-mysql d6f050 739 aiidateam/aiida-core 9cff5f 3,741 alliander-opensource/weather-provider-api 70f5d3 129 anthropics/anthropic-sdk-python d2f654 4,217 anthropics/claude-quickstarts 882638 280 apiflask/apiflask d71d64 376 ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago e6e0bc 20,943 AsyncFuncAI/deepwiki-open d92819 109 

Continued on next page 

26 Table 11 – continued from previous page 

Repository name Commit sha # Tests avaiga/taipy-core 62f0d8 1,241 Azure/azure-cli 889dcc 5,796 Azure/azure-iot-ops-cli-extension 6541bb 7,021 baserow/baserow 0621bc 11,730 basxsoftwareassociation/basxconnect a616dd 18 BeehiveInnovations/pal-mcp-server 7afc7c 886 beeware/briefcase 448b58 3,062 benadida/helios-server c7ed06 51 benthayer/git-gud d00a04 172 BerriAI/litellm a8979f 65,652 biothings/biothings.api 657356 313 brightway-lca/brightway2-io e315f0 199 bruin-data/ingestr 1a980e 19 catalystneuro/roiextractors 4d98f3 475 censys/censys-python d5533d 450 centre-for-humanities-computing/dacy d990de 16 Checkmk/checkmk a92883 24,391 chopratejas/headroom 35b115 13,158 cityofzion/neo3-boa 58d33f 2,102 Cloud-CV/EvalAI 1c5960 1,822 co-me-tokens/CoMe 5c7cfb 223 coderamp-labs/gitingest 4e259a 160 columnflow/columnflow ad0477 72 conan-io/conan-package-tools decb63 127 containers/podman-compose 8156ab 736 convexengineering/gpkit bea123 286 copier-org/copier 454ec4 1,148 crystaldba/postgres-mcp 07eb32 216 crytic/slither 5e78b8 7,296 D4Vinci/Scrapling 8e7bc9 768 datactive/bigbang 42568c 73 datamol-io/datamol 031238 282 devopness/devopness ea00b9 84 diefenbach/django-lfs 3e6e96 484 django-oauth/django-oauth-toolkit 74b100 557 Donkie/Spoolman eafbc6 223 dtmilano/androidviewclient 8738d3 320 eastsidepreparatoryschool/epschedule 76cc6b 13 ecds/readux 3eaf18 320 ellmetha/django-machina e34c8b 462 facebookresearch/hydra 2e682d 2,615 fastapi/typer 7fb978 1,379 feast-dev/feast f296d4 2,644 fhempy/fhempy 2c61a6 81 folio-fse/folio migration tools 4e994d 450 fonttools/fontbakery a51772 918 frappe/press 73a2a4 846 gip-inclusion/les-emplois 816cac 6,099 google/nsscache e0f270 306 google/trax 145147 3,492 GoogleCloudPlatform/gcpdiag 21d367 1,418 googlecloudplatform/gsutil 767984 1,575 GoogleCloudPlatform/PerfKitBenchmarker bd08f2 2,563 GoogleCloudPlatform/ramble 9ac589 2,885 grycap/im 096005 330 guardrails-ai/guardrails d85ea9 568 gymrek-lab/TRTools 99d7fb 233 hhursev/recipe-scrapers 4788af 184 hitsz-ids/synthetic-data-generator f36845 177 huggingface/transformers 031cfc 167,927 ibm/ibmi-bob d74105 17 

Continued on next page 

27 Table 11 – continued from previous page 

Repository name Commit sha # Tests idaholab/civet 282f2c 462 idank/explainshell e961c8 559 IFRCGo/go-api bfeec0 333 insistence/RuoYi-Vue3-FastAPI 726883 1,479 intake/intake 7cc9d8 688 iss-mimic/mimic d3d1b7 3jacebrowning/memegen 40d586 254 jackdewinter/pymarkdown 446fbb 6,930 jaehyeon-kim/flink-demos fe228c 33 jageo/lobsterpy 55d8d2 135 jaraco/keyring afe0ab 242 jazzband/tablib 212126 157 jhao104/proxy pool 9cc0ca 248 johnsnowlabs/nlu 506860 252 JonBunator/Enterr 3fa9be 38 karlicoss/hpi 35dd5d 147 karlicoss/promnesia 5136f0 168 kittinan/spotify-github-profile 0f605f 134 lhotse-speech/lhotse f9fb18 1,974 librephotos/librephotos 0a9e63 125 lightkurve/lightkurve a8f26d 429 m0wer/joinmarket-ng a54d74 536 mad-lab-fau/biopsykit 2ad99f 1,434 marimo-team/marimo 537b23 1,087 markqvist/reticulum 6ded42 68 materialsvirtuallab/monty 0c4abd 127 mckinsey/vizro 192687 2,500 mdolab/openaerostruct 0448bf 182 MemTensor/MemOS de8069 946 menpo/menpo bf08b9 819 meta-pytorch/torchrec b30d3a 3,222 microsoft/markitdown e144e0 374 microsoft/torchgeo f2e178 2,578 microsoftgraph/msgraph-sdk-python-core e36c17 26 Mirascope/mirascope cd6bf0 326 miurahr/aqtinstall ac7da3 367 mlflow/mlflow 6dcba5 21,221 mne-tools/mne-lsl 03d598 168 Modalities/modalities 4aa2e8 118 modelscope/AgentJet 25118b 63 mollie/mollie-api-python 957b44 264 mozilla/addons-server 6ff48b 9,098 mpmath/mpmath ee1a81 2,318 mvt-project/mvt f5b0a3 165 netneurolab/netneurotools 49f83c 205 neurogym/neurogym ee0a14 28 NewFuture/DDNS e2e055 912 nginx-proxy/nginx-proxy a64c03 469 Nikita-Filonov/ai-review e3e19d 828 NikolasMarkou/dl techniques 31a385 34,754 Nitrokey/pynitrokey 0f3070 190 nixtla/neuralforecast 90b6fd 1,226 nomadkaraoke/karaoke-gen ecd114 6,545 NovaSky-AI/SkyRL 53b115 2,749 numba/llvmlite 5c181f 380 nutti/fake-bpy-module eea267 126 NVIDIA-NeMo/RL b03da0 2,601 oarriaga/paz cede0a 591 observatorycontrolsystem/observation-portal 31c2dd 883 online-ml/river 6995f1 3,432 onyx-dot-app/onyx f4b2f6 14,119 

Continued on next page 

28 Table 11 – continued from previous page 

Repository name Commit sha # Tests open-cas/open-cas-linux ba5bdf 6,197 OpenCTI-Platform/connectors 0de8b8 9,939 OpenDCAI/DataFlow d70f9e 161 opengisch/pum 5b458a 195 pajbot/pajbot a0d969 89 pastas/pastas eeb8e2 173 pathintegral-institute/mcpm.sh 6a92e5 298 peering-manager/peering-manager 4dcdd6 882 perplexityai/perplexity-py 299016 806 piccolo-orm/piccolo 17c0a8 823 polarsource/polar 97e943 5,749 PostHog/posthog 682044 77,642 pre-commit/pre-commit 1553b4 820 pretalx/pretalx 64e726 1,391 pretix/pretix 943b31 5,995 pycontribs/jira bf7306 311 pypa/distutils 0de29d 478 pytest-dev/pytest-xdist c7b4f6 257 python-control/python-control dbc998 3,625 python-markdown/markdown 33359f 1,149 python-poetry/poetry 5bab98 1,695 python-websockets/websockets ff4869 2,248 qiboteam/qibocal 0625d9 1,134 Qiskit/qiskit 655dfb 64,558 Quantum-Accelerators/quacc f6bc96 335 resend/resend-python fbc422 695 revoxhere/duino-coin 2d3d3d 130 rfsbraz/deleterr b64a08 880 rq/rq eacec8 690 rstcheck/rstcheck b8ddb0 62 sassoftware/python-sasctl ebd0a6 610 scitools/iris-grib e6e3d5 581 scylladb/scylla-cluster-tests 4def67 7,451 scylladb/sphinx-scylladb-theme 4e3917 35 sgl-project/sglang-jax dc84c1 3,557 sgl-project/SpecForge ed64d2 1,257 shotgun-sh/shotgun 4d344d 2,503 simplistix/testfixtures 608b05 1,467 skrub-data/skrub 0d69d9 1,571 sooperset/mcp-atlassian 562f92 2,741 spacetelescope/pysiaf 4395e6 32 stan-dev/cmdstanpy aa7555 286 sublimelinter/sublimelinter 621ba9 1,642 supabase/supabase-py 6f522d 753 TencentBlueKing/bk-lite c7fd93 39,652 TencentBlueKing/blueking-apigateway 87bc68 4,646 TencentBlueKing/blueking-dbm ab940a 3,581 tensorflow/model-optimization 38b201 1,725 testcontainers/testcontainers-python 1571ff 731 tgoai/tgo 995da4 102 The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenLane e0d2e6 79 theislab/cellrank 607491 1,151 thenewboston-developers/thenewboston-Backend 9ff731 90 timbrel/gitsavvy da8f3c 383 tinygrad/tinygrad 96b94b 5,476 trailofbits/algo f6931d 129 ucoproject/uco 9f1683 46 unit8co/darts 4d5a9a 10,915 uploadcare/pyuploadcare 114d17 267 uriyyo/fastapi-pagination e00623 1,732 valory-xyz/trader 64fa99 18 

Continued on next page 

29 Table 11 – continued from previous page 

Repository name Commit sha # Tests wecode-ai/Wegent f296d3 5,050 wilcoxjay/mypyvy 3a055d 8wireless-innovation-forum/spectrum-access-system 928c31 369 wpi-lnl/lnldb 6384c0 317 xuwei95/ezdata 97243e 291 yihong0618/bilingual book maker 3f7fc1 2,294 yourlabs/django-autocomplete-light 45a9ff 84 zostera/django-bootstrap3 a6565b 64 zscole/gru 67c9b6 773 

30