Video2World:
Benchmarking Coding Agents for Interactive
World Modeling from Embodied Videos
Jinzhou Tang1,2*, Zijun Zhang1*, Jing Yang1, Yuchen Yan1, Kun Zhou1†, Lingjun Mao1,
Ruobing Han1, Jinglin Cao1, Wenpeng Xu1, Lukun He1, Minghao Fu1,2, Fan Feng1,
Biwei Huang1,2
1 Aether AI, 2 University of California, San Diego
*Equal Contribution; †Corresponding Author and Project Lead
Building interactive simulators from real-world observations is a promising way to scale embodied
data, but current pipelines still rely heavily on manual environment construction and calibration.
We study whether frontier foundation models and coding agents can automate this process end to
end. We formulate autonomous video-to-simulation as a software engineering task in which an agent
observes an embodied video, constructs the corresponding simulated environment and robot behavior,
and iteratively refines the result through execution feedback. To evaluate this capability, we introduce
Video2World, a benchmark comprising 222 reconstruction instances derived from 189 robot and
human demonstration videos. Video2World measures reconstructed worlds along geometric fidelity,
dynamic fidelity, and functional correctness, capturing spatial perception, physical reasoning, and
executable interaction. Evaluating 9 frontier coding-agent systems reveals a sharp improvement in
Task success beginning with Claude Opus 5, rising from below 5% to over 15%, while substantial
gaps to human-assisted reconstruction remain. We further find that worlds that look better could
work worse: better visual fidelity does not always lead to higher task success. This echoes the broader
gap between perceptual realism and factual correctness observed in generative models.
§ Code: https://github.com/AetherLabsAI/Video2World
Dataset: https://huggingface.co/datasets/AetherLabs-AI/Video2World
 Webpage: https://aetherlabsai.github.io/Video2World
Date: October 6, 2026
1
Introduction
Embodied AI aims to build intelligent systems that can perceive, reason, and act effectively in
the physical world, enabling applications such as robotic manipulation, household assistance, and
industrial automation [Duan et al., 2022]. Fully acquiring these capabilities requires large amounts of
diverse embodied interaction data, which is expensive, time-consuming, and difficult to scale in the
real world [Khazatsky et al., 2024, Mandlekar et al., 2023]. To alleviate this bottleneck, many prior
works have explored interactive simulation as a scalable data engine, where agents can act, observe
state transitions, and automatically collect embodied experience [Nasiriany et al., 2024, Wang et al.,
2024a,b]. Conventional Real-to-Sim pipelines, however, still require substantial engineering effort to
1
arXiv:2610.04432v1  [cs.CV]  3 Oct 2026


Video2World
2
Table 1. Comparison with related benchmarks. ✓yes and × no denote whether the benchmark focuses on
evaluating the corresponding capability: Embodied for embodied reasoning and planning; Physics for physical-
world dynamics and interaction; Spatial for spatial understanding; Agent for agentic planning and iterative
interaction; Coding for executable code generation.
Benchmark
Input
Embodied Physics Spatial Agent Coding Evaluation Task
SWE-bench [2024]
Code Repository
×
×
×
×
✓
Code Generation
VSI-Bench [2025]
RGB Video
×
×
✓
×
×
Question Answer
RoboDojo [2026b]
Interactive Env.
✓
✓
×
×
×
Robot Manipulation
CaP-X [2026]
Interactive Env.
✓
✓
×
✓
✓
Robot Manipulation
RLE-Bench [2026]
Interactive Env.
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
Robotics Engineering
EmbodiedSWE-Bench [2026] Interactive Env.
✓
✓
×
✓
✓
Task Completion
SimuScene [2026]
Text
×
✓
×
×
✓
Physics Simulation
3DCodeBench [2026]
Text / Image
×
×
✓
✓
✓
3D Modeling
SceneActBench [2026]
Image / Video
×
×
✓
✓
✓
3D Scene Action
BVB [2026]
RGB Video
×
×
✓
✓
✓
Editable Env. Rec.
Video2World (Ours)
RGB Video
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
Interactive Env. Rec.
reconstruct and configure simulation environments, calibrate geometry and physical properties, align
coordinate systems, and integrate perception and simulation components [Torne et al., 2024, Han
et al., 2026, Chen et al., 2026a].
In recent years, foundation models and agents have made rapid progress in spatial perception,
visual understanding and planning, demonstrating increasingly strong capabilities in solving complex
software and embodied tasks [Yang et al., 2025, Jimenez et al., 2024, Xie et al., 2024, Fu et al., 2026,
You et al., 2026]. These advances make it increasingly promising to automate the full process of
interactive world modeling in simulators through an agent itself [Ye et al., 2025, Chen et al., 2026a].
Such automation could substantially reduce the human effort, and enable the efficient conversion of
real-world observations into scalable interactive environments for data generation, policy learning,
and evaluation. However, existing benchmarks typically assess only one or a few isolated capabilities
for interactive environment reconstruction, such as spatial understanding, physical rule following,
scene reconstruction, or environment editing [Yang et al., 2025, Wang et al., 2026, Gao et al., 2026,
Zhao et al., 2026, Tang et al., 2026]. As shown in Table 1, they provide only a fragmented view of
performance and do not reveal how effectively current frontier models and agents can integrate these
capabilities to autonomously build, execute, and refine interactive worlds.
To fill this gap and directly test whether foundation models and coding agents can autonomously
construct interactive physical worlds, we formulate autonomous video-to-simulation as an end-to-end
software engineering task [Ye et al., 2025, Chen et al., 2026a]. Concretely, given an RGB video of
an embodied interaction together with a target simulator, an agent must construct the environment,
implement the robot behavior, and iteratively refine the simulation through execution feedback.
To support systematic evaluation, we construct a dataset that pairs embodied videos with their
corresponding simulator environments, including aligned scene configurations, object states, and
interaction trajectories. This paired structure allows us to compare an agent-generated simulation
directly against the underlying target environment and assess the full reconstruction quality. In
this way, we measure not only whether an agent can understand the world, but also whether it can
integrate embodied reasoning, physical understanding, spatial perception, and agentic coding abilities


Video2World
3
Open-Source 
Framework
Video2World
46.07
51.12
53.62
56.58
54.97
54.02
62.69
69.76
67.35
60
Score
Functionality
Geometry
Dynamics
Models 
Performance
0
Dataset
Composition
222 Tasks
Real Video
Ego-Centric
25.97
5.04
23.15
5.37
29.93
8.05
28.33
5.42
31.90
6.13
33.52
12.02
38.21
23.78
39.92
20.99
40.53
37.67
40
Cross‑
Embod.
Robot Interact: 13
Phys.‑Rich Interact: 10
Cross‑Embod. Interact: 12
Dextr. Place: 12
Spatial Place: 18
Obj. Lift: 22
Obj. Place: 14
20
Place, Insert & Extract.: 11
10
Pick & Hold:26
Ready-to-Use 
Benchmark
Multiple Robot 
Embodiments
Diverse 
Manipulation Tasks
20
30
0
GLM-5.3 
Flash
Qwen 3.8- 
Max-0902
Deepseek 
V4.1 Flash
Gemini 3.8 
Flash
GPT-5.6 Sol
Kimi K3
Claude 
Opus 5
GPT-6 
Astra
Claude 
Fable 5.1
Obj. Pickup & Lift: 12
Obj. & Cloth Manip.: 20
Struct. Insert: 26
Off-the-shelf 
Coding Agent
Interactive 
World
Place. & Insert:13
Comp. Assem:14
Part Seat:11
Standardized 
Evaluation Protocol
End-to-End 
Autonomous 
Reconstruction
Human
Robot
Figure 1. Video2World benchmarks the conversion of embodied videos into simulated worlds. Given an RGB
video and simulator tools, a coding agent constructs the environment and robot behavior, then revises its
implementation using execution feedback. Evaluation examines geometric fidelity, physically generated object
motion, and task completion.
to recover an interactive environment that faithfully reproduces the demonstrated physical world.
We introduce Video2World, a benchmark for evaluating foundation models and coding agents
on autonomous interactive world modeling from embodied videos. Video2World comprises 222
reconstruction instances across 39 task families, constructed from 189 video clips spanning robot
executions, egocentric human recordings, and third-person human demonstrations. To evaluate
reconstruction quality comprehensively, we design metrics from three complementary perspectives:
geometric fidelity, which measures how accurately the reconstructed scene matches the spatial structure
of the source environment; dynamic fidelity, which evaluates whether simulated object motions
and state transitions reproduce the observed physical evolution; and functional correctness, which
assesses whether the reconstructed environment supports successful task execution through physical
interaction. Together, these metrics reflect an agent’s ability to integrate spatial perception, physical
reasoning, and executable coding for end-to-end interactive world modeling.
We evaluate 9 frontier coding-agent systems under the same interface and uncover several key
findings. First, current coding agents can construct executable simulated worlds, but reliably complet-
ing the demonstrated interactions remains challenging. Second, reconstruction fidelity and functional
correctness are related but not equivalent: models with stronger geometric accuracy do not necessarily
achieve task success. Third, human-assisted reconstruction provides a substantially stronger reference,
while still falls short of perfect task completion. Finally, different coding-agent systems exhibit distinct
strengths across the evaluated dimensions, suggesting that overall video-to-simulation performance
emerges from their combination rather than any single ability.


Video2World
4
2
Preliminary: Autonomous Video-to-Sim via Coding Agents
We study the autonomous video-to-sim task that asks a coding agent to implement an executable
simulator program as an interactive environment from an embodied video. The agent must recover
task-relevant scene structure, physical behavior, and robot control from visual observations.
Problem Formulation.
Given an RGB embodied video 𝑣, a target simulator S, and a set of general-
purpose tools T, a coding agent A produces
𝑃= (𝜂, 𝜋) ∼A(· | 𝑣, S, T),
(1)
where 𝜂specifies the reconstructed simulation environment and 𝜋specifies the robot behavior under
the robot embodiment and control interface provided by S. Executing 𝑃yields a rollout consisting of
a sequence of simulated states and robot actions:
𝜏𝑃= (𝑠0, 𝑎0, 𝑠1, . . . , 𝑎𝑇−1, 𝑠𝑇),
𝑎𝑡= 𝜋(𝑡, 𝑠≤𝑡),
𝑠𝑡+1 = 𝐹𝜂(𝑠𝑡, 𝑎𝑡),
(2)
where 𝐹𝜂denotes the simulator dynamics instantiated by 𝜂, while 𝑠𝑡and 𝑎𝑡denote the simulated state
and robot action at step 𝑡, respectively. A reconstruction is functionally correct if the resulting rollout
reproduces the task demonstrated in 𝑣through robot execution in the reconstructed environment.
Agentic Video-to-Sim.
We implement agentic video-to-sim as an iterative coding process. Given the
source video 𝑣, target simulator S, and tools T, the agent inspects visual observations and available
resources, edits the simulation program, executes the current reconstruction, and uses the resulting
feedback to revise both the environment 𝜂and robot behavior 𝜋. This loop allows the agent to
progressively correct implementation errors and discrepancies between the simulated interaction and
the source demonstration. Construction terminates upon submission or when the runtime or tool-call
budget is exhausted. The resulting program 𝑃= (𝜂, 𝜋) is then fixed for evaluation.
3
Video2World: Benchmarking Coding Agent Video-to-Sim
Video2World evaluates coding agents for end-to-end reconstruction of interactive physical worlds
from embodied videos. We first collect embodied videos and construct the corresponding world
assets and annotations, then design a standardized agentic video-to-sim protocol, and finally define
evaluation metrics for assessing the reconstructed worlds.
3.1
Property Construction
Video2World constructs object-centric world properties from embodied videos to support evaluation
of reconstructed interactive environments. We focus on the objects, physical context, motion, and task
states that determine how the demonstrated interaction unfolds. These properties provide common
evaluation targets across different robot embodiments and control strategies.
Video and Task Collection.
To cover diverse scenarios and tasks, we assemble 189 video clips
forming 222 reconstruction instances from FurnitureBench Heo et al. [2023], DROID Khazatsky et al.
[2024], RoboDojo Chen et al. [2026b], HOI4D Liu et al. [2022], HOT3D Banerjee et al. [2025],
DexYCB Chao et al. [2021], OakInk2 Zhan et al. [2024], and an in-house household dataset. The
collection includes both real and simulated demonstrations spanning diverse embodiments, viewpoints,


Video2World
5
Video2World Pipeline
RGB Video Input
Coding Agent
Command
Execution
File 
Operators
Task
Planning
Search&
Navigation
Invalid
Invocation
Skill Entry
Output
Feedback
Logs / 
States
Rollout
Submit
Robot 
Action
Scene
Execution
Simulated World
Human Assisted Reference
Information
Tools
Scene Reconstruction
Tracking
RGB Video
Source Annotations
Scene Modeling
Object States 
Manual Inspection
...
...
Input
Refine
System identification
Motion Recontruction
Build Check
Pass
Object-Centric Evaluation
Dynamics
Geometry
Physical Rollouts
Metrics
Demonstrated Object 
Trajectory
Scene CD
Error
Shape CD
Rotation APE
Size Error
(trajectory / pose error)
...
Submited Scene
Submited Rollout
Translation APE
Metrics
Translation RPE
...
Geometry GT
Functionality
Task Success
Physical Rollouts
Metrics
Task Success
Progress
Goal
Task 
Progress
...
Grasp
Lift
Align
Place
Initial State
Final State
Figure 2. Overview of Video2World. A coding agent constructs the scene and robot behavior in a sandbox,
using video inspection, simulator APIs, asset resources, and execution feedback. Submitted reconstructions
are evaluated against hidden scene geometry, demonstrated object motion, and task requirements. Evaluation
separately measures geometric fidelity, dynamic fidelity of object motion, and functional correctness under
physical execution.
scene configurations, and interaction mechanisms. Each reconstruction instance pairs a source video
with a target configuration specifying the simulator, robot embodiment, and control interface. We
select clips in which the participating objects, essential interaction process, and task outcome are
visually discernible. Instances are organized into fixed task families according to source-specific task
categories, target embodiments, and annotation configurations (Appendices B.2).
Object-Centric World Annotations.
To evaluate whether an agent reconstructs an interactive
world rather than merely a visually similar scene, Video2World requires task-relevant properties
that capture how the demonstrated interaction is structured and evolves. We therefore represent
each video with object-centric annotations covering three aspects: scene geometry, object motion,
and task requirements. Concretely, scene geometry records object shape, scale, articulation, and
spatial relations; object-motion annotations describe how participating objects move and change
state; and task specifications define entity roles, initial conditions, essential interaction events,
terminal goals, and progress milestones. These annotations provide a common target for measuring
what the agent has reconstructed and reproduced, while remaining independent of the particular
simulator implementation or robot control strategy. The annotation sources, hidden specifications,
and verification process are described in Appendices B.3 and B.7.
Cross-Embodiment Alignment.
Video2World aligns human and robot demonstrations through
task-relevant object states and motions, providing common evaluation targets across embodiments
and control strategies. Concretely, we derive a reference behavior for each target robot from the
hidden annotations and execute it under contact physics to verify that the demonstrated interaction
can be physically reproduced. This object-centric alignment preserves shared task-level targets while


Video2World
6
allowing embodiment-specific robot trajectories. Reference construction is detailed in Appendix B.5.
As a supplementary check, we compare source and simulated effector motion on 40 human-assisted
reference instances from 35 videos, selected by task success in the original evaluation. The six motion
statistics show Spearman correlations of 0.74–0.99, including 0.80 for net rotation, suggesting that
these reference executions also preserve key motion characteristics beyond object motion (Figure 5).
The comparison protocol and metric definitions are provided in Appendix C.6.
3.2
Agentic Protocol Design
With the above collected properties, we devise a standardized protocol for testing how coding
agents construct interactive worlds from videos. It controls the agent’s available resources, reconstruc-
tion budget, and execution setting, while leaving the internal construction strategy fully autonomous.
This design evaluates deployable coding-agent systems under a common task interface rather than
enforcing a common internal scaffold.
Agent Workspace.
Each reconstruction instance pairs a source video with a target configuration
specifying the simulator, robot embodiment, and control interface. The coding agent operates in an
isolated sandbox containing the source video, simulator APIs, documentation, available assets, and
general-purpose coding tools. Within this workspace, the agent constructs the simulated environment
𝜂𝑖and robot behavior 𝜋𝑖, and may iteratively inspect simulation outputs and revise its implementation
through execution feedback. Each reconstruction instance specifies the source video, target simulator,
robot embodiment, and control interface. Construction follows framework-specific resource limits
and stopping rules, without a fixed episode-wide tool-call or model-turn budget. More details are
specified in Appendices A.1, A.4, and A.5.
Environment Execution.
After submission, the reconstructed environment and robot behavior are
executed by the evaluator under the assigned simulator, embodiment, and control settings. The
evaluator initializes the scene, controls simulation stepping, and records object states, articulation,
and contacts for evaluation. After initialization, all object changes must arise through simulator
dynamics rather than direct state assignment. Each model receives one independent construction
attempt per instance, with submitted code and execution traces retained for reproducibility. More
details are in Appendices A.2 and A.3.
3.3
Evaluation Metrics Design
We evaluate each reconstructed world from complementary perspectives that capture whether
it can be executed, whether it preserves the source scene and physical evolution, and whether it
supports the demonstrated interaction. Specifically, Video2World reports executability, geometric
fidelity, dynamic fidelity, and functional correctness.
Executability.
We first measure whether the submitted reconstruction can be successfully executed
through the prescribed simulator interface. Build Rate reports the fraction of submissions that produce
a valid executable environment and robot behavior under the assigned target configuration.
Geometric Fidelity.
Geometric fidelity measures how accurately the reconstructed initial scene
matches the annotated source environment. We evaluate both scene-level surface correspondence


Video2World
7
Table 2. Overall performance on Video2World. V2WScore combines Build, functionality, geometry, and
dynamics into a single 0–100 score, macro-averaged across task families. Build measures executability; Func-
tionality reports task success and stage-wise progress; Geometry measures scene- and object-level reconstruction
accuracy; and Dynamics reports translation APE, rotation APE, and translation RPE. The human-assisted refer-
ence additionally uses source information and manual refinement. Best and second-best automated results are
shown in bold and underlined, respectively; ties share the same formatting. Metric definitions, deformation
and partial-observation terms, aggregation, and missing-data handling are detailed in Appendices C.7 and C.4.
V2WScore Build
Functionality
Geometry
Dynamics
Method
Score
(0–100) ↑
Rate
(%) ↑
Success
(%) ↑
Progress
(0–1) ↑
Scene CD
(cm) ↓
Shape CD
(cm) ↓
Size err.
(cm) ↓
T-APE
(cm) ↓
R-APE
(deg) ↓
T-RPE
(cm) ↓
Human-assisted Ref
74.24
100.0
58.8
0.70
2.19
0.15
0.43
9.40
41.09
2.42
Claude Fable 5.1
48.52
93.1
25.5
0.53
5.35
1.00
2.78
18.71 104.61
8.25
GPT-6 Astra
43.55
93.1
10.7
0.33
6.23
0.69
1.62
20.78
95.08
6.19
Claude Opus5
41.56
92.8
16.0
0.34
6.01
1.14
3.13
19.37 110.85
8.42
Kimi K3
33.19
92.0
4.8
0.21
8.08
1.41
4.23
27.28 111.16 14.29
GPT-5.6 Sol
31.00
92.5
2.5
0.11
7.79
1.37
3.76
31.68 105.03 18.00
DeepSeek-V4.1 Flash
30.54
92.4
4.1
0.13
8.59
1.50
4.13
34.64 104.52 20.85
Gemini-3.8 Flash
30.11
93.1
2.0
0.09
8.57
1.25
3.67
37.97 114.82 28.65
Qwen-3.8 Max-0902
26.55
87.6
1.5
0.11
8.36
1.51
4.13
41.28 110.06 27.38
GLM-5.3 Flash
25.69
87.7
2.0
0.09
9.58
1.62
5.04
41.16 103.83 30.16
and object-level reconstruction quality, including object shape, size, position, articulation, and relative
spatial relations. For scene-level evaluation, let E denote the annotated non-support entities, S𝑒their
reference surfaces, bC the registered reconstructed non-support surface, and B the reference surface
including supports. We compute an interaction-weighted geometric error
𝐸geo =
∑︁
𝑒∈E
¯𝑤𝑒D

S𝑒, bC

+ D𝜔

bC, B

,
(3)
where ¯𝑤𝑒= 𝑤𝑒/Í
𝑗∈E 𝑤𝑗, and 𝑤𝑒assign larger weights to manipulated objects, receiving objects, and
nearby structures that directly affect the demonstrated interaction. The directed distances D and
D𝜔use the capped median and capped weighted-median definitions in Appendix C.1, respectively,
with candidate-point weights 𝜔inherited from the nearest reference non-support entity. Object-
level metrics further report shape, scale, position, and relative-pose errors. Full surface-sampling,
registration, and object-level definitions are provided in Appendix C.1.
Dynamic Fidelity.
Dynamic fidelity measures how closely physical execution in the reconstructed
environment reproduces the object motion observed in the source video. For object 𝑒, let 𝑝𝑒(𝑡) and
𝑝∗
𝑒(𝑡) denote its simulated and demonstrated positions at time 𝑡. We measure translational motion
discrepancy relative to each trajectory’s initial state:
𝐸𝑒
dyn = 1
|T |
∑︁
𝑡∈T
𝜌𝑐𝑝
Δ𝑝𝑒(𝑡) −Δ𝑝∗
𝑒(𝑡)

2

.
(4)
Here Δ𝑝𝑒(𝑡) = 𝑝𝑒(𝑡) −𝑝𝑒(0) and Δ𝑝∗
𝑒(𝑡) = 𝑝∗
𝑒(𝑡) −𝑝∗
𝑒(0), T contains the comparison times after temporal
correspondence, and 𝜌𝑐𝑝(𝑟) = min{𝑟, 𝑐𝑝} with 𝑐𝑝= 1 m, following Appendix C.2. This removes global
translation offsets while preserving differences in motion magnitude and temporal evolution. We


Video2World
8
(a) Human preference
12 raters  /  243 judgments  /  39 cases
HPR
95% confidence intervals
700
900
1100
1300
1500
Human-assisted
reference
1205.1
GPT-6
Astra
1163.7
Claude
Fable 5.1
1135.8
GPT-5.6
Sol
1040.3
Claude
Opus 5
1006.8
Kimi
K3
936.3
Qwen3.8-
Max-0902
916.1
DeepSeek
V4.1 Flash
906.2
Gemini
3.8 Flash
862.9
GLM-5.3
Flash
826.7
(b) Demonstration and execution
Source Video
Claude 
Fable 5.1
Human-assisted
Reference
Household: soda-can placement
0%
40%
75%
100%
Failure  ·  progress 0.00
Success  ·  progress 1.00
DexYCB: sugar-box lifting
0%
40%
75%
100%
Failure  ·  progress 0.33
Success  ·  progress 1.00
Figure 3. Human in the loop reference and evaluation (a) Human preference ratings of coding models and
the human-assisted reference, based on 243 judgments from 12 raters across 39 cases. Error bars indicate 95%
confidence intervals. (b) Source demonstrations and simulated executions for two representative tasks. Each
method executes its own behavior in its reconstructed environment. Outcomes and task progress are reported
below each simulated sequence; red boxes highlight failed executions.
additionally evaluate rotational motion, account for known object symmetries, and use frame-level
surface correspondence for deformable objects. These metrics focus on task-relevant object dynamics,
allowing different control strategies to realize the same physical interaction.
Functional Correctness.
Functional correctness evaluates whether the reconstructed world sup-
ports successful execution of the demonstrated task. For each task family, we define object-centric
requirements covering task-defining initial conditions, essential interaction events and their ordering,
and the terminal goal. We report both Task Success and graded Task Progress through intermedi-
ate milestones, allowing different embodiments, trajectories, and execution timings as long as the
required interaction is physically realized. More details are in Appendix C.3.
4
Experiments
We investigate the reliability of autonomous video-to-simulation via coding agents, the performance
relative to human-assisted reconstruction, the relationship between geometric fidelity and functional
correctness, and the effector-motion correspondence in selected HAR executions.


Video2World
9
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Shape CD (cm)
0
10
20
Task Success (%)
GPT-6 Astra
Fable-5.1
Claude-Opus5
0
5
10
15
20
25
Task Success (%)
Shape CD
Size error
Scene CD
Centre error
Init. relation
Across models
(a)
(b)
Surface geometry
Placement
Quartiles within model and family: most → least accurate
- - panel mean
Figure 4. Geometric fidelity versus functional correctness. (a) System-level Shape CD against Task Success;
both are macro-averaged over task families, and Task Success counts failed builds as failures. (b) Task Success
across geometric-error quartiles formed within each model and task family, averaged equally across families
and then models. Dashed lines mark the mean of each panel; error bars show 95% source-video bootstrap
intervals. The initial relation is the object–receiver relation before execution, since the terminal relation enters
the success predicate.
4.1
Experimental Setup
Coding agents.
We evaluate 9 coding-agent models on 222 instances, covering 189 video clips
and 39 task families. Seven models run through OpenCode, while GPT-6 Astra and Fable-5.1 use
Codex CLI and Claude Code, respectively. We evaluate each configuration as a complete agent system,
including its underlying model, coding scaffold, and inference settings. Each model makes one
autonomous construction attempt per instance under the benchmark interface and assigned target
configuration (Section 3). All agents have access to physical simulation and rendered rollout feedback
and may iteratively revise both the scene and robot behavior within a 180-minute wall-clock limit.
The submission retained by the prescribed stopping rule is frozen for evaluation, without human
correction or selection based on hidden scores. More details are in Appendix A.
Human-assisted reference.
HAR leads across the reported automatic metrics and obtains the
highest Human Preference Rating (HPR) point estimate in our pairwise study of overall scene-and-
interaction faithfulness (Figure 3a). The study protocol, participant information, and rating procedure
are detailed in Appendix B.6. Successful HAR rollouts further demonstrate that the target tasks are
feasible under the benchmark configuration, including cases where coding agents produce incomplete
or unsuccessful executions (Figure 3b). However, HAR itself does not achieve uniformly reliable task
completion, showing that improved scene knowledge and manual refinement do not eliminate the
difficulty of reconstructing executable behavior.
Evaluation.
We report V2WScore, a 0–100 aggregate of Build, functionality, geometry, and dynamics,
alongside its component metrics. The score is computed independently for each method, which
executes its own robot behavior in its reconstructed environment. Task judgments use the recorded
rollout and configuration-specific physical-validity checks. Build Rate, Task Success, and Task Progress
are aggregated over all applicable instances, with failed builds assigned zero. Continuous errors
are computed on evaluable comparisons, with coverage reported. Each metric is averaged within
task families and then across eligible families with equal weight. Reported 95% confidence intervals


Video2World
10
0
10
0
10
ρ = 0.99
Motion duration (s)
0
50
100
0
50
100
ρ = 0.80
Path length (cm)
0
100
0
100
ρ = 0.84
Peak speed (cm/s)
0
20
0
20
ρ = 0.90
Lift height (cm)
0
40
80
0
40
80
ρ = 0.74
Net displacement (cm)
0
40
80
0
40
80
ρ = 0.80
Net rotation (deg)
−1
0
1
Motion duration
Path length
Peak speed
Lift height
Net displacement
Net rotation
±0.25 SD
0.07 s
3.61 cm
3.02 cm/s
0.57 cm
1.94 cm
3.27°
Median |Δ|
(a)
(b)
Source effector motion
Simulated effector motion
Simulated − source
(SD of source demonstrations)
DROID
HOI4D
HOT3D
DexYCB
OakInk
Figure 5. Robot Effector Motion Beyond Object-Centric Evaluation. (a) Source versus simulated effector
statistics for 40 human-assisted reference instances from 35 videos, selected by task success in the original
evaluation and colored by source. We compare gripper TCPs on DROID and human wrists with robot hand roots
on human-video sources. Diagonals indicate equality; 𝜌is Spearman correlation. (b) Simulated-minus-source
differences normalized by the source sample SD. Boxes show median/IQR; whiskers use 1.5× IQR. Shading
marks ±0.25 SD; arrows count off-scale points; the right column gives median absolute differences. See
Appendix C.6 for definitions.
use stratified source-cluster bootstrapping, retaining related clips and target configurations together.
More details and experiments are in Appendix C and Appendix D.
4.2
Main Results
Coding agents build executable worlds but remain unreliable at full task completion.
Most
agent-generated reconstructions can be simulated, as reflected by high Build Rates, but Task Progress
consistently exceeds Task Success (Table 2), showing that agents often achieve partial interaction
without completing all required conditions. Even Fable-5.1, the strongest model by V2WScore,
exhibits this gap. Moreover, strong object reconstruction does not necessarily yield stronger functional
performance: GPT-6 Astra leads in object shape and size accuracy, while Fable-5.1 achieves better
scene-level and task performance. These results highlight a gap between reconstructing individual
assets and jointly recovering a scene and behavior that support successful interaction.
Human-assisted reconstruction provides a strong but empirical reference.
HAR leads across
the reported automatic metrics and is also preferred by human evaluators (Figure 3a), supporting its
use as a high-quality reference. Successful HAR rollouts further demonstrate that the target tasks are
feasible under the benchmark configuration, including cases where coding agents produce incomplete
or unsuccessful executions (Figure 3b). However, HAR itself does not achieve uniformly reliable task
completion, showing that improved scene knowledge and manual refinement do not eliminate the
difficulty of reconstructing executable behavior.


Video2World
11
Geometric fidelity helps but does not guarantee functional correctness.
Lower shape, size,
and scene errors are generally associated with higher Task Success within models and task families
(Figure 4b), yet many geometrically accurate reconstructions still fail. The system-level comparison
shows the same mismatch: GPT-6 Astra achieves the strongest object-shape fidelity, whereas Fable-5.1
completes more tasks (Figure 4a). Conversely, some reconstructions remain functional despite spatial
disagreement with the source, since robot behavior can adapt to the reconstructed layout. Geometry
and functionality should therefore be evaluated separately to distinguish faithful reconstruction from
task-effective reconstruction.
Successful reconstructions also recover key motion characteristics.
We compare effector-motion
statistics between source demonstrations and successful simulated reference executions, including
motion duration, path length, peak speed, lift height, net displacement, and net rotation. Figure 5
shows broadly similar motion characteristics across the two, providing additional evidence that
successful reconstructions capture not only terminal states but also important temporal and spatial
properties of the demonstrated interaction. Detailed statistics are provided in Appendix C.6.
5
Related Work
Real-to-Sim Reconstruction for Robot Manipulation.
Real-to-Sim methods reconstruct interactive
simulations from real-world observations for robot learning and evaluation. RialTo and Re3Sim
reconstruct environments for policy learning and transfer [Torne et al., 2024, Han et al., 2026], while
PhysTwin recovers deformable-object models that reproduce observed interactions [Jiang et al., 2025].
GenSim and RoboGen use foundation models to generate tasks, environments, and robot behaviors
for scalable simulation-based learning [Wang et al., 2024a,b]. More closely related, Video2Policy
reconstructs manipulation tasks from internet videos and uses language models to generate and refine
rewards for policy learning [Ye et al., 2025]. Agentic Real-to-Sim coordinates vision-language agents
with specialized perception and simulation tools to convert recorded interactions into executable
episode twins [Chen et al., 2026a].
Foundation-Model Agents for Embodied Tasks.
Foundation models connect semantic reasoning
with embodied action through planning, code generation, and execution feedback. SayCan grounds
language-based planning in robotic skill affordances [Ahn et al., 2022], while PaLM-E integrates
visual and continuous sensor observations for embodied reasoning [Driess et al., 2023]. Code as
Policies generates executable programs that compose perception and control APIs [Liang et al., 2023],
and VoxPoser constructs spatial value maps through language-model-generated code [Huang et al.,
2023]. Voyager further demonstrates how execution feedback enables program revision and reusable
skill acquisition in Minecraft [Wang et al., 2023].
Benchmarks for Coding and Agentic Construction.
Coding-agent benchmarks evaluate pro-
gram execution and refinement. SWE-bench measures repository-level issue resolution [Jimenez
et al., 2024]; embodied benchmarks include CaP-X for robot-control programs under varied inter-
faces and observations [Fu et al., 2026], RLE-Bench for robot learning engineering [RLE-Bench
contributors, 2026], and EmbodiedSWE-Bench for long-horizon manipulation and other physical
tasks [You et al., 2026]. Construction benchmarks cover procedural modeling from text and images
in 3DCodeBench [Gao et al., 2026], visually conditioned scene operations against hidden geometric


Video2World
12
targets in SceneActBench [Zhao et al., 2026], and code generation for text-specified physical scenar-
ios in SimuScene [Wang et al., 2026]. Particularly related, BVB evaluates video reconstruction as
animated Blender scenes through spatiotemporal facts and perceptual similarity [Tang et al., 2026].
6
Conclusion
We introduced Video2World, a benchmark for autonomous reconstruction of interactive physical
worlds from embodied videos. Video2World formulates video-to-simulation as an end-to-end software
engineering task and evaluates geometric fidelity, dynamic fidelity, and functional correctness. Our
experiments show that current coding agents can often build executable simulations, yet reliable task
completion remains challenging. We further find that geometric fidelity does not fully determine
functional correctness, and even human-assisted reconstruction remains imperfect. These results
highlight interactive world reconstruction as a joint scene–behavior problem and motivate execution-
grounded evaluation beyond individual fidelity metrics.
References
Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea
Finn, Chuyuan Fu, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Daniel Ho, Jasmine
Hsu, Julian Ibarz, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Eric Jang, Rosario Jauregui Ruano, Kyle Jeffrey, Sally
Jesmonth, Nikhil J Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Kuang-Huei Lee, Sergey
Levine, Yao Lu, Linda Luu, Carolina Parada, Peter Pastor, Jornell Quiambao, Kanishka Rao, Jarek
Rettinghouse, Diego Reyes, Pierre Sermanet, Nicolas Sievers, Clayton Tan, Alexander Toshev, Vincent
Vanhoucke, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Mengyuan Yan, and Andy Zeng. Do as i can, not
as i say: Grounding language in robotic affordances, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.01691.
Prithviraj Banerjee, Sindi Shkodrani, Pierre Moulon, Shreyas Hampali, Shangchen Han, Fan Zhang,
Linguang Zhang, Jade Fountain, Edward Miller, Selen Basol, Richard Newcombe, Robert Wang,
Jakob Julian Engel, and Tomas Hodan. HOT3D: Hand and object tracking in 3D from egocentric
multi-view videos. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), pages 7061–7071, 2025. URL https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR
2025/html/Banerjee_HOT3D_Hand_and_Object_Tracking_in_3D_from_Egocentric_Multi-View_
CVPR_2025_paper.html.
Yu-Wei Chao, Wei Yang, Yu Xiang, Pavlo Molchanov, Ankur Handa, Jonathan Tremblay, Yashraj S.
Narang, Karl Van Wyk, Umar Iqbal, Stan Birchfield, Jan Kautz, and Dieter Fox.
DexYCB: A
benchmark for capturing hand grasping of objects. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 9044–9053, 2021. URL https://openaccess
.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2021/html/Chao_DexYCB_A_Benchmark_for_Capturing_Hand_Gra
sping_of_Objects_CVPR_2021_paper.html.
Guanxiong Chen, Qianjun Xia, Jiawei Peng, Heng Zhang, Pengyu Jing, Bole Ma, Justin Qian, Yixian
Cheng, Ziyi Jiao, Bingyang Zhou, Yiduo Qu, Luoxin Ye, Kaifeng Zhang, Kunyi Wang, Weijia Zeng,
Yunuo Chen, Pengzhi Yang, Ziqiu Zeng, Siyuan Luo, Huamin Wang, Chao Liu, Alan Yuille, Fan Shi,
Changxi Zheng, Yunzhu Li, Chenfanfu Jiang, and Peter Yichen Chen. Agentic real2sim: Physics-
based world modeling with vision-language agents, 2026a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.19190.


Video2World
13
Tianxing Chen, Yue Chen, Zixuan Li, Junyuan Tang, Kailun Su, Haoran Lu, Weijie Wan, Baijun Chen,
Songling Liu, Haowen Yan, Honghao Su, Zhiyang Dou, Kaixuan Wang, Dandan Zhang, Yunze
Liu, Yan Qin, Qiwei Liang, Qiwei Wu, Zijian Lin, Wenwei Lin, Yuran Wang, Minghua He, Tianshu
Wu, Ruihai Wu, Jingquan Zhou, Kai-Chong Lei, Haibao Yu, Yuanfeng Ji, Weiyang Jin, Guanyu
Lin, Xiaofan Li, Qi Xiong, Renjing Xu, Zhongyu Li, Wenhao Chai, Enze Xie, Ziwei Wang, Yao Mu,
Hao Dong, Wojciech Matusik, Mingyu Ding, Wenbo Ding, Ping Luo, and Masayoshi Tomizuka.
Robodojo: A unified sim-and-real benchmark for comprehensive evaluation of generalist robot
manipulation policies, 2026b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.04434.
Danny Driess, Fei Xia, Mehdi S. M. Sajjadi, Corey Lynch, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Brian Ichter, Ayzaan
Wahid, Jonathan Tompson, Quan Vuong, Tianhe Yu, Wenlong Huang, Yevgen Chebotar, Pierre
Sermanet, Daniel Duckworth, Sergey Levine, Vincent Vanhoucke, Karol Hausman, Marc Toussaint,
Klaus Greff, Andy Zeng, Igor Mordatch, and Pete Florence. Palm-e: An embodied multimodal
language model, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.03378.
Jiafei Duan, Samson Yu, Hui Li Tan, Hongyuan Zhu, and Cheston Tan. A survey of embodied ai:
From simulators to research tasks, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.04918.
Letian Fu, Justin Yu, Karim El-Refai, Ethan Kou, Haoru Xue, Huang Huang, Wenli Xiao, Guanzhi
Wang, Dantong Niu, Fei-Fei Li, Guanya Shi, Jiajun Wu, Shankar Sastry, Yuke Zhu, Ken Goldberg,
and Linxi "Jim" Fan. Cap-x: A framework for benchmarking and improving coding agents for robot
manipulation, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.22435.
Yipeng Gao, Lei Shu, Genzhi Ye, Xi Xiong, Ameesh Makadia, Meiqi Guo, Laurent Itti, and Jindong
Chen. 3dcodebench: Benchmarking agentic procedural 3d modeling via code, 2026. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2606.01057.
Xiaoshen Han, Junqiu Yu, Minghuan Liu, Yilun Chen, Xiaoyang Lyu, Yang Tian, Bolun Wang, Weinan
Zhang, and Jiangmiao Pang. Re3sim: Generating high-fidelity simulation data via 3d-photorealistic
real-to-sim for robotic manipulation, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08645.
Minho Heo, Youngwoon Lee, Doohyun Lee, and Joseph J. Lim. FurnitureBench: Reproducible real-
world benchmark for long-horizon complex manipulation. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and
Systems, 2023. doi: 10.15607/RSS.2023.XIX.041. URL https://roboticsproceedings.org/rss19/p0
41.html.
Wenlong Huang, Chen Wang, Ruohan Zhang, Yunzhu Li, Jiajun Wu, and Li Fei-Fei. Voxposer:
Composable 3d value maps for robotic manipulation with language models, 2023. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2307.05973.
Hanxiao Jiang, Hao-Yu Hsu, Kaifeng Zhang, Hsin-Ni Yu, Shenlong Wang, and Yunzhu Li. Phystwin:
Physics-informed reconstruction and simulation of deformable objects from videos. ICCV, 2025.
Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik
Narasimhan. Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues?, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06770.
Alexander Khazatsky, Karl Pertsch, Suraj Nair, Ashwin Balakrishna, Sudeep Dasari, Siddharth Karam-
cheti, Soroush Nasiriany, Mohan Kumar Srirama, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Kirsty Ellis, Peter David


Video2World
14
Fagan, Joey Hejna, Masha Itkina, Marion Lepert, Yecheng Jason Ma, Patrick Tree Miller, Jimmy
Wu, Suneel Belkhale, Shivin Dass, Huy Ha, Arhan Jain, Abraham Lee, Youngwoon Lee, Marius
Memmel, Sungjae Park, Ilija Radosavovic, Kaiyuan Wang, Albert Zhan, Kevin Black, Cheng Chi,
Kyle Beltran Hatch, Shan Lin, Jingpei Lu, Jean Mercat, Abdul Rehman, Pannag R Sanketi, Archit
Sharma, Cody Simpson, Quan Vuong, Homer Rich Walke, Blake Wulfe, Ted Xiao, Jonathan Heewon
Yang, Arefeh Yavary, Tony Z. Zhao, Christopher Agia, Rohan Baijal, Mateo Guaman Castro, Daphne
Chen, Qiuyu Chen, Trinity Chung, Jaimyn Drake, Ethan Paul Foster, Jensen Gao, David Antonio
Herrera, Minho Heo, Kyle Hsu, Jiaheng Hu, Donovon Jackson, Charlotte Le, Yunshuang Li, Roy
Lin, Zehan Ma, Abhiram Maddukuri, Suvir Mirchandani, Daniel Morton, Tony Nguyen, Abigail
O’Neill, Rosario Scalise, Derick Seale, Victor Son, Stephen Tian, Emi Tran, Andrew E. Wang, Yilin
Wu, Annie Xie, Jingyun Yang, Patrick Yin, Yunchu Zhang, Osbert Bastani, Glen Berseth, Jeannette
Bohg, Ken Goldberg, Abhinav Gupta, Abhishek Gupta, Dinesh Jayaraman, Joseph J Lim, Jitendra
Malik, Roberto Martín-Martín, Subramanian Ramamoorthy, Dorsa Sadigh, Shuran Song, Jiajun Wu,
Michael C. Yip, Yuke Zhu, Thomas Kollar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. DROID: A large-scale
in-the-wild robot manipulation dataset. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems, 2024. doi:
10.15607/RSS.2024.XX.120. URL https://www.roboticsproceedings.org/rss20/p120.html.
Jacky Liang, Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Peng Xu, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Pete Florence, and
Andy Zeng. Code as policies: Language model programs for embodied control, 2023. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.07753.
Yunze Liu, Yun Liu, Che Jiang, Kangbo Lyu, Weikang Wan, Hao Shen, Boqiang Liang, Zhoujie Fu,
He Wang, and Li Yi. HOI4D: A 4D egocentric dataset for category-level human-object interaction.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages
21013–21022, 2022. URL https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2022/html/Liu_HOI4D_
A_4D_Egocentric_Dataset_for_Category-Level_Human-Object_Interaction_CVPR_2022_paper.ht
ml.
Ajay Mandlekar, Soroush Nasiriany, Bowen Wen, Iretiayo Akinola, Yashraj Narang, Linxi Fan, Yuke
Zhu, and Dieter Fox. Mimicgen: A data generation system for scalable robot learning using human
demonstrations, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.17596.
Soroush Nasiriany, Abhiram Maddukuri, Lance Zhang, Adeet Parikh, Aaron Lo, Abhishek Joshi, Ajay
Mandlekar, and Yuke Zhu. Robocasa: Large-scale simulation of everyday tasks for generalist robots,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02523.
RLE-Bench contributors. Rle-bench: A qualifying exam for coding agents as robot learning engineers.
https://github.com/RLE-Bench/RLE-Bench, 2026.
Yolo Y. Tang, Daiki Shimada, Jiayue Meng, Jing Bi, Pinxin Liu, Yicheng Wang, Yunzhong Xiao,
Zhangyun Tan, Zeliang Zhang, Chao Huang, Susan Liang, Qianxiang Shen, Luchuan Song, Ali
Vosoughi, Mingqian Feng, Melika Filvantorkaman, and Chenliang Xu. Bvb: Benchmarking agentic
video understanding via programmatic reconstruction in blender, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/ab
s/2609.15478.
Marcel Torne, Anthony Simeonov, Zechu Li, April Chan, Tao Chen, Abhishek Gupta, and Pulkit Agrawal.
Reconciling reality through simulation: A real-to-sim-to-real approach for robust manipulation,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03949.


Video2World
15
Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and
Anima Anandkumar. Voyager: An open-ended embodied agent with large language models, 2023.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16291.
Lirui Wang, Yiyang Ling, Zhecheng Yuan, Mohit Shridhar, Chen Bao, Yuzhe Qin, Bailin Wang, Huazhe
Xu, and Xiaolong Wang. Gensim: Generating robotic simulation tasks via large language models.
In International Conference on Learning Representations, volume 2024, pages 4890–4924, 2024a.
Yanan Wang, Renxi Wang, Yongxin Wang, Xuezhi Liang, Fajri Koto, Timothy Baldwin, Xiaodan Liang,
and Haonan Li. Training and benchmarking code generation for physics-inspired animations, 2026.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.10840.
Yufei Wang, Zhou Xian, Feng Chen, Tsun-Hsuan Wang, Yian Wang, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Zackory
Erickson, David Held, and Chuang Gan. Robogen: Towards unleashing infinite data for automated
robot learning via generative simulation, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01455.
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh Jing
Hua, Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, Yitao Liu, Yiheng Xu, Shuyan Zhou, Silvio
Savarese, Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Tao Yu. Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for
open-ended tasks in real computer environments, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.07972.
Jihan Yang, Shusheng Yang, Anjali W. Gupta, Rilyn Han, Li Fei-Fei, and Saining Xie. Thinking in
space: How multimodal large language models see, remember, and recall spaces, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14171.
Weirui Ye, Fangchen Liu, Zheng Ding, Yang Gao, Oleh Rybkin, and Pieter Abbeel. Video2policy:
Scaling up manipulation tasks in simulation through internet videos, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2502.09886.
Haoxiang You, Zeyu Shen, Yilang Liu, Zhicheng Zheng, Lihan Zha, Kashu Yamazaki, Mingtong
Zhang, Suning Huang, Jiankai Sun, Qianzhong Chen, Lucy He, Kaiyuan Liu, Haoran Chang,
Katerina Fragkiadaki, Dhruv Shah, Mac Schwager, Peter Henderson, Ian Abraham, and Canwen Xu.
Embodiedswe: Coding agents for long horizon dexterous robotics, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/ab
s/2609.27308.
Xinyu Zhan, Lixin Yang, Yifei Zhao, Kangrui Mao, Hanlin Xu, Zenan Lin, Kailin Li, and Cewu Lu.
OAKINK2: A dataset of bimanual hands-object manipulation in complex task completion. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages
445–456, 2024. URL https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2024/html/Zhan_OAKINK2_A
_Dataset_of_Bimanual_Hands-Object_Manipulation_in_Complex_Task_CVPR_2024_paper.html.
Yifei Zhao, Xiangxin Zhou, Wenhao Yang, Jiaqi Tang, Pu Jian, Huanjin Yao, Jiarui Yao, Haowei Lin,
Chunchao Guo, Zhuo Chen, Wenkai Lyu, Jianzhu Ma, Xueqian Wang, and Wenxi Zhu. Sceneact-
bench: Can agents act on the 3d scenes they see?, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.22393.


Video2World
16
Appendix
A
Environment and Agent Interface
This section specifies the interface through which a coding agent constructs and submits a re-
construction to Video2World. A benchmark instance fixes an RGB video, a target embodiment,
an execution backend, and a public task brief. The agent estimates the scene and supplies robot
controls; the benchmark reconstructs the submitted environment and measures the resulting physical
interaction. It is implemented using the scene, control, and validation facilities of Video2Sim.
Instantiation of the reconstruction problem.
The environment description 𝜂contains the re-
constructed geometry, collision shapes, material and inertial properties, passive mechanisms, and
initial object configuration, together with the estimated camera and robot placement required by the
assigned interface. The target simulator S fixes the embodiment, admissible controls, and execution
rules. The initial physical state 𝑠0 is obtained from the submitted configuration using the initializa-
tion procedure specified below. Camera parameters determine rendered observations; they do not
prescribe object motion. Thus, 𝑃= (𝜂, 𝜋) is an executable scene-and-control package interpreted by
the benchmark’s simulator, with the agent estimating the scene and behavior within a fixed execution
contract.
Representation of robot behavior.
In the implemented interface, the agent specifies a finite
sequence of control references 𝑈= (𝑢0, . . . , 𝑢𝑁−1) and a control interval Δ𝑡. Each reference is a
Cartesian target or a vector of joint and gripper commands, as detailed in Table A2. The behavior 𝜋
combines these references with the fixed controller for S, which performs the applicable interpolation,
inverse kinematics, actuator control, and contact-dependent waits. The general state-dependent
notation 𝜋(𝑡, 𝑠≤𝑡) therefore includes feedback supplied by this controller; the submitted behavior is
a control sequence, rather than an arbitrary policy callback. The coding agent may revise 𝑈after
inspecting a construction rollout, but does not revise the frozen sequence during final evaluation.
State and execution time.
The simulated state comprises robot and object configurations and
velocities, together with the simulator state required to advance their dynamics. Robot actions 𝑎𝑡
in the rollout describe physical execution and are distinct from the coding agent’s tool operations
during construction. The transition 𝐹𝜂is understood with the assigned simulator and controller fixed;
a recorded transition can span multiple physics integration steps. Source-video frames, submitted
control samples, and recorded simulation states consequently need not have equal counts or times-
tamps. Interpolation, initialization, contact-dependent waits, and terminal settling determine the
executed clock. The declared control interval and recorded state timestamps, rather than the video
frame index, determine the timing of the reconstruction.
A.1
Public Inputs and Information Boundary
Episode inputs.
The agent receives a local copy of the source video, its image dimensions and
frame count, and the instructions for the assigned embodiment. Video inspection, frame extraction,
geometric estimation, numerical optimization, and local simulation are available through ordinary
coding tools. No particular perception or planning pipeline is prescribed. The agent must infer object
geometry, metric scale, initial poses, camera parameters, and robot behavior from the permitted


Video2World
17
observations. For an egocentric recording, later measurements are expressed in the first camera
frame after accounting for camera motion using the static scene.
Public simulator and robot information.
Public resources specify the target simulator, robot geom-
etry, joint limits, control conventions, and submission requirements. Agents infer the task objective,
participating objects, semantic roles, and interaction sequence from the source video. No additional
task descriptions, semantic role annotations, or task-specific success criteria are supplied. Source
calibration, reference geometry, measured object trajectories, reference controls, and benchmark
scores remain hidden.
Table A1. Agent-visible resources and withheld information. Public resources are selected by the assigned
configuration. Candidate observations concern the agent’s own reconstruction.
Resource
Interface specification
Source observation
RGB video; resolution, frame count, and the sampling information stated in the
task brief. No depth or measured source calibration.
Public specification
Target simulator and robot; simulator documentation, robot assets, joint limits,
control conventions, and submission requirements.
Workspace tools
Shell execution; reading, writing, and editing files; filename and text search. Image-
capable file reads expose inspected source frames or candidate renders.
Construction feedback
Program output and errors; package-validation errors; candidate physical rollouts,
rendered observations, and available execution diagnostics.
Withheld information
Reference scene and object meshes, measured source trajectories, source robot
logs, hidden camera calibration, reference submissions, and benchmark scores.
Workspace and observations.
The standard construction driver stages the video separately from
the reference data and allocates episode-specific output and temporary directories. Instructions
restrict episode-specific reads to the staged inputs and prohibit obtaining the source dataset’s ground
truth or calibration. Construction transcripts are retained and audited for accesses to protected
sample paths. These are workspace restrictions and an access audit; the audit alone does not establish
operating-system isolation. A tool observation consists of the content actually returned to the agent:
file contents, search results, execution output, errors, or inspected images. A generated image or video
becomes a visual observation only when it is opened through an image-capable interface. Hidden
benchmark scores are never included in the standard validation-repair loop.
Initialization of a benchmark episode.
A reconstruction trial starts from the selected video and
embodiment in the experiment manifest. Before launching the agent, the benchmark verifies the
input video and public-resource versions, creates a fresh workspace and conversation, and supplies
the fully instantiated task brief. The source video and released resources are staged separately from
evaluation annotations; previous candidates and conversations are not reused. Thus, reproducing a
trial fixes both the video bytes and the assigned configuration, together with the prompt revision,
public assets, agent invocation, and evaluation version. The supported configurations in Table A2
describe the available interface; the selected experiment manifest determines which instances are
run.


Video2World
18
Execution environment for the model comparison.
The seven OpenCode configurations in Ta-
ble A7 use a benchmark-managed executor that additionally enforces filesystem and network re-
strictions. Public inputs are read-only, and each agent receives one CPU, 4 GiB of memory, and no
GPU device access. Network connections are restricted to the model API proxy and the submission
service. Web access, external plugins, human clarification, and delegated agents are disabled. These
resource limits describe the coding process. In the current protocol, every configuration also provides
physical rollout feedback during construction, as specified in Section A.5; lack of direct GPU access by
the coding process does not remove this requirement. Final evaluation is performed separately with
access to the withheld annotations. Astra and Fable use externally launched coding-agent sessions,
whose configuration and delivery procedure are specified below.
Visual observations and media limits.
The public frame sampler defaults to 16 evenly spaced
frame indices, including both endpoints, with original timestamps retained. Images are resized to a
maximum side length of 1,024 pixels and encoded as JPEG at quality 85. An extraction may contain
2–48 frames and must write to a new output directory. For the OpenCode configurations, each model
request admits at most 16 images, 4 MB per image, and 20 MB of aggregate image data before base64
encoding; the serialized request is limited to 30 MB. Context management preferentially retains
recent images and the first image of each source within this budget. Removed images are represented
by visible placeholders and may be inspected again. Frame extraction and image observation are
separate operations: only images actually returned by a read or attachment enter the model’s visual
context.
A.2
Simulation Configurations and Control Conventions
Table A2 summarizes the simulation configurations and control interfaces for the 222 benchmark
instances. The two human-video configurations use the same 33 source clips with different target
embodiments. All configurations are included in the main evaluation.
Units, poses, and cameras.
Distances are in metres, time in seconds, and joint and orientation
angles in radians. Rigid poses use a translation and a scalar-first unit quaternion, (𝑥, 𝑦, 𝑧, 𝑞𝑤, 𝑞𝑥, 𝑞𝑦, 𝑞𝑧).
Camera coordinates follow the OpenCV convention: +𝑥points right, +𝑦down, and +𝑧forward. A
transform 𝐴𝑇𝐵maps coordinates from frame 𝐵to frame 𝐴. The agent estimates the camera parameters
requested by the configuration at the delivered image resolution. The rigid camera-frame profiles
estimate focal lengths and principal point; RoboDojo assumes square pixels and a centred principal
point and asks for the focal length. Resizing and letterbox padding must be accounted for when
projecting onto the video.
For the camera-frame rigid and human-video interfaces, the declared camera-to-delivery transform
is the identity. The evaluator applies the withheld registration between the source camera and the
evaluation frame; this registration is not returned to the agent. Candidate self-simulation instead
uses the agent’s own estimate of the robot base pose. Native RoboDojo and household submissions
explicitly estimate the camera-to-public-world transform, and evaluation uses that estimate rather
than substituting hidden calibration. Joint commands remain in the named robot joint frames.
Single-arm Cartesian control.
A submitted row is
𝑢𝑘= (𝑥𝑘, 𝑦𝑘, 𝑧𝑘, 𝛼𝑘, 𝛽𝑘, 𝛾𝑘, 𝑔𝑘),
𝑅𝑘= 𝑅𝑧(𝛾𝑘)𝑅𝑦(𝛽𝑘)𝑅𝑥(𝛼𝑘).
(5)


Video2World
19
Table A2. Registered candidate interfaces. 𝑁is the number of reconstruction instances; the total is 222.
Frequencies refer to submitted controls, not physics integration. For each floating hand, the seventh palm value
records the open/closed convention; its twenty finger angles determine the actual posture.
Configuration
𝑁
Simulator / robot
Submitted control
Furniture assembly
64 SAPIEN / Panda
TCP position, orientation, and gripper; 7 values at 5 Hz.
DROID tasks
20 SAPIEN / Panda with
Robotiq 2F-85
TCP position, orientation, and gripper; 7 values at 5 Hz.
Human video to arm 33 SAPIEN / Panda
TCP position, orientation, and gripper; 7 values at 5 Hz.
Human video to
hands
33
SAPIEN / paired Wuji
hands
Two palm streams of 7 values and two finger streams of 20
angles; synchronized timestep.
Planar pushing
3
SAPIEN / xArm7 with
pusher
TCP position and orientation at 5 Hz; seventh value
unused.
RoboDojo
25 Isaac Sim / dual X5
or dual xArm7
14 or 16 joint/gripper values at 25 Hz.
Household
manipulation
37 Isaac Sim / G1 with
Omnipicker grippers
20 joint/gripper values at 20 Hz.
Rope and soft toy
7 MuJoCo / xArm7
7 arm angles and 1 gripper angle; declared control
timestep.
The position denotes the tool centre point (TCP); for the parallel-gripper interfaces this is the midpoint
between the fingertip pads, with the approach direction along local +𝑧and the opening direction
along local +𝑦. A gripper command of one means open and zero means closed. The first row specifies
the initial tool configuration. The public brief recommends successive translations no larger than 3 cm
and rotations no larger than 0.3 rad, and a stationary terminal segment. These are motion-planning
recommendations, distinct from the runtime’s numerical validity checks.
For FurnitureBench, rigid DROID, and planar pushing, the benchmark registers the camera-frame
submission using the withheld source calibration and executes the controls with the assigned robot
at its evaluation placement. Inverse kinematics produces joint targets, with four interpolated joint-
control updates between consecutive submitted poses. For the prescribed 5 Hz input, joint control is
20 Hz and physics integration is 100 Hz. Reset uses seed zero. An initially open gripper is followed by
0.5 s of settling. An initially closed stream omits this settling and performs grasp initialization, with
closing preparation of up to 2 s for the Panda or 1.5 s for the Robotiq. Closing transitions can insert
additional waits: up to 1.5 s for the Panda and 1.2 s for the Robotiq, with earlier termination when
the respective contact condition is met. The final pose is measured after a 1 s settling period. These
waits belong to the executed clock and are retained in the rollout diagnostics. The human-video arm
configuration uses its separate 300 Hz contact executor and also includes 1 s of terminal settling.
The rigid benchmark uses frictional holding with configuration-specific contact approximations.
For an initially held object, it permits a surface-alignment correction of at most 3 cm before closure.
Applicable furniture insertion tasks use an evaluator-owned retention approximation: a released part
satisfying the predefined seating geometry is fixed at its attained pose to represent a threaded or tight
fit. Ordinary DROID placement disables this retention rule. These operations are fixed properties of
the evaluator, not additional actions available to the agent. In DROID, the gripper closes kinematically
before first contact and then uses force-limited control; its closing rate is derived evaluator-side from


Video2World
20
the source gripper trace, with a minimum increment of 0.02 rad per control update. This trace is not
exposed during reconstruction.
The public local replay tool supports candidate-only inspection using the agent’s estimated robot
and camera geometry. It is distinct from the registered benchmark evaluator: its 5 cm inverse-
kinematics rejection threshold and 180 s action limit are local replay checks, not universal benchmark
admission thresholds. Local replay success therefore does not certify the benchmark outcome.
Synchronized dexterous control.
Each Wuji hand has six wrist degrees of freedom and twenty
finger joints. The submission provides a palm-pose stream and a finger-angle stream for each side,
with equal lengths and a shared timestep that is a positive integer multiple of 1/300 s; the task brief
gives 1/30 s as an example. An unused hand still receives a stationary stream. Finger angles are
ordered by thumb, index, middle, ring, and little finger, with four joints per digit, and must satisfy
the public robot limits. Palm +𝑧points along the extended fingers and +𝑥toward the palm’s curling
direction; the thumb lies on +𝑦for the right hand and −𝑦for the left.
Both hands evolve under force-limited dynamics at 300 Hz. Wrist forces are capped at 200 N
per translational axis, and wrist torques at 100 N,m per rotational axis; finger effort and velocity
limits follow the robot description. The default initialization uses an open posture and a palm
position displaced backwards by 8 cm, followed by a shared 1.2 s approach. A submitted initialization
offset may have magnitude at most 25 cm. Both hands then follow the same action clock, without
independent adaptive waits, and the rollout ends with 1 s of settling. Objects are held through
contact and friction. Commanded palm motion is not exact object motion, and contact from either
hand is considered when determining release. The hand validity checks allow at most 6 mm of
robot penetration, 15 mm of object displacement during initialization, 4 mm of nonadjacent self-
overlap diameter, and 0.001 rad of finger-joint limit excess. Joint-speed exceedances are recorded as
diagnostics; they do not independently invalidate the rollout.
Native joint control.
RoboDojo accepts the left-arm angles, left gripper, right-arm angles, and right
gripper, in that order. Dual X5 has six arm joints per side (14 values total); dual xArm7 has seven (16
values total). The interval is 0.04 s and grippers use zero for closed and one for open. The household
interface instead orders seven left-arm angles, seven right-arm angles, waist lift, waist pitch, head
yaw, head pitch, and two gripper commands (20 values total), at an interval of 0.05 s. Waist lift is
a distance; the other articulated coordinates are angles. Here grippers use zero for open and one
for closed. Only the outer gripper joints are driven; mechanical follower joints retain their native
coupling. RoboDojo integrates physics at 250 Hz (ten steps per command) with reset seed seven.
The 35 rigid household cases integrate at 60 Hz (three steps per command), while the two wallet
cases use 120 Hz (six steps per command). The household executors append a task-specific stationary
terminal tail of either two or forty command intervals (0.1 s or 2 s); the wallet cases use 2 s. One
initialization physics step precedes the recorded household trajectory.
In the current household brief, the first-frame camera pose must be consistent with the public
head-camera mount and the agent’s inferred initial waist and head configuration. If 𝑊𝑇𝐻is the
resulting USD camera transform expressed using column vectors, then
𝑊𝑇𝐶= 𝑊𝑇𝐻diag(1, −1, −1, 1).
(6)
USD row-vector matrices are transposed before this conversion. The scene remains in the first camera
frame even when the head subsequently moves. This requirement is not a claim about the prompts


Video2World
21
used for earlier submissions. Structural validation checks the submitted rigid transform and joint
limits; it does not independently certify this forward-kinematics consistency.
Articulated-gripper MuJoCo control.
The rope and soft-toy configurations use the supplied xArm7
collision model, including six mechanically linked gripper joints, five coupling equalities, and four
exclusions between adjacent links. The agent estimates the robot base placement but preserves
these internal mechanics. The TCP is 0.172 m from the final arm link. Each action contains seven
arm angles and the gripper drive angle: zero is open and 0.85 rad is closed. The drive command
changes at no more than 2 rad/s. The public brief specifies a physics timestep of 50 𝜇s and a coupling
constraint time constant of 0.1 ms with damping ratio one. The runtime rejects a coupling residual
above 0.001 rad at any physics step. The declared control interval must lie between 1 ms and 1 s;
submissions contain at most 20,000 rows and at most 180 s of controls. Executed states are sampled
at 20 Hz. Manipulated objects are passive rigid bodies, articulated chains, or deformable elements;
controls actuate only the supplied robot.
Runtime versions.
The inspected rigid execution environment uses SAPIEN 3.0.3 and ManiSkill
3.0.1 with Python 3.11.7. The isolated rope and soft-toy environment uses MuJoCo 3.11.0 with
Python 3.11.7. The native robot environment uses Isaac Sim 5.1.0.0. These are backend-specific
environments, rather than a single shared installation. Robot assets, controller implementations,
native runtime dependencies, and the selected evaluation version are bound to the run’s reproduction
record; library dependency lower bounds do not identify a reproducible runtime.
A.3
Submission, Validation, and Execution
Submission contents.
A submission is a self-contained scene-and-control package. It declares the
assigned embodiment, object identities and roles, geometry and collision geometry, physical properties,
initial poses, camera model, control convention, and timestep. All referenced candidate geometry
must resolve to local package assets. A reconstruction report states the observations supporting metric
estimates, modeling approximations, and remaining ambiguities. Annotated source frames provide
evidence for estimates such as object dimensions and contact timing. Table A3 gives the concrete
interchange files; these filenames are serialization conventions, not a prescribed reconstruction
method.
Scene semantics.
Manipulated objects are dynamic; receiving objects and supports are represented
explicitly. Static and dynamic geometry are distinguished, and a receptacle’s collision model must
preserve its cavity. The shared rigid schema specifies primitive half-extents, whereas the native Isaac
scene format specifies full extents; the conversion must not introduce a factor-of-two scale error.
Object names identify semantic roles in the rigid interfaces. Native tasks use the supplied semantic
identifiers, while MuJoCo submissions identify disjoint robot, manipulated-object, and target subtrees.
Doors and drawers require passive revolute or prismatic joints, respectively, with the joint axis and
anchor expressed in the parent object’s local frame. Initial joint displacement is zero; limits are in
radians for revolute joints and metres for prismatic joints.
Structural validation.
The validator checks that required files exist and that geometry, poses, and
action arrays satisfy the assigned contract. Configuration-specific checks include object and receiver
presence, finite arrays, synchronized hand streams, dimensions and command rates, admissible


Video2World
22
Table A3. Submission artifacts. 𝑇denotes source-video frames and 𝑁submitted control rows; these lengths
need not agree.
Artifact
Required content
protocol.json
Version 3.0 manifest: target configuration, scene or scene-file reference,
camera, robot, action-file references, timestep, and provenance.
actions.npy
Finite control matrix with the embodiment-specific width in Table A2; Carte-
sian streams are stored as 64-bit floating-point arrays.
Additional hand arrays
For paired hands, a second 𝑁×7 palm stream and two 𝑁×20 finger-angle
streams, with four distinct file references.
scene.json / scene.xml
Native Isaac submissions use a separate scene description; MuJoCo submis-
sions use an MJCF scene with the supplied robot and explicit object, robot,
and target roles.
assets/
Locally referenced visual and collision geometry. Native mesh submissions
provide vertices and face indices, with metric scale incorporated into the
vertices.
expected/
obj_poses.npy
Camera-frame 𝑇×7 object-pose estimates for the camera-frame rigid and
human-video profiles. These are declarations, not commands; native joint
and MuJoCo interfaces do not require them.
source/, report.md
Input video, annotated evidence frames, and reconstruction rationale with
uncertainty and approximation disclosures.
joint limits, local asset references, and valid rigid transforms. Native scene checks additionally
verify positive dimensions and mass, normalized quaternions, collision participation, and consistency
between declared sizes and mesh bounds. A structurally valid package may still fail to initialize,
contain unreachable controls, or fail the task; validation is not a success oracle.
Physical execution.
Evaluation initializes the scene from the submitted package and executes its
own controls through the registered robot interface. The benchmark owns simulation stepping and
state recording. Candidate object-pose predictions do not drive bodies, and candidate instructions
cannot replace the measured rollout with a declared trajectory. Direct object animation, object
actuators, artificial grasp attachments, and post-initialization object-state overrides are outside the
candidate control interface. Passive mechanisms required by an object’s physical structure, such as
a door hinge or rope joints, are part of the scene model. Native executors record actual robot and
object states and, where supported, contacts, constraint residuals, and physical-validity diagnostics.
Candidate-only inspection uses the declared geometry and camera where supported; evaluation
renders follow the configuration-specific camera and registration policy described above, including
native mounted cameras.
Build and outcome separation.
A missing or invalid candidate package is a method failure.
Successful parsing, a completed simulator process, and the agent’s declared completion status do
not imply Task Success. Task judgments use the executed states and the benchmark’s evaluation
specification. Conversely, an execution that completes and produces valid records can fail the task
while remaining evaluable. Runtime or dependency failures attributable to evaluation infrastructure
are recorded separately and require a valid rerun before a task conclusion is drawn. The evaluator’s
recorded failure category distinguishes these cases; no hidden score is used to choose a better


Video2World
23
intermediate submission.
A.4
Agent Tools and Public Operations
Coding tools provide the agent’s interaction with the construction environment. They support
video inspection, numerical analysis, geometric modeling, and writing scene and control artifacts.
Table A4 summarizes these capabilities and the feedback available to the agent. The reconstruction
procedure is unrestricted within the task’s observation and resource constraints. OpenCode selects
the editing interface for the configured model. Fable exposes its native shell, read, write, and edit
tools, while Astra uses the coding tools of its pinned Codex CLI. Exact invocation schemas accompany
the reproducibility material.
Table A4. Coding capabilities available to the agent. All operations are restricted to the permitted workspace
and public resources. Model-specific tool definitions are supplied by the pinned agent framework.
Capability
Agent-specified input
Agent-visible feedback
Shell execution
Program or command; optional
execution limit
Standard output, execution errors, exit status,
and timeout information.
File and image reading
File or directory; optional text
range
File contents, directory entries, or an image
observation.
Filename search
Filename pattern and search
location
Matching file paths.
Text search
Text pattern and search scope
Matching passages and file locations.
File creation
File location and contents
Confirmation, diagnostics, or a write error.
Text replacement
File and requested replacement
Modification result or an error.
Patch editing
Additions, changes, or deletions
Results of the requested file modifications.
Task bookkeeping
Task descriptions and completion
states
Updated local task list.
The shell tool defaults to a 120 s timeout, which may be overridden for individual commands.
Text output is ordinarily limited to 2,000 lines or 51,200 bytes; oversized shell output is retained in a
local file that the agent can subsequently read. Text reads default to 2,000 lines, with a 51,200-byte
limit and a 2,000-character limit per line. Filename and text searches return at most 100 results.
These observation limits are distinct from the episode’s total construction allowance.
The benchmark provides operations for observing the video, inspecting physical execution, and
managing candidate reconstructions (Table A5). Frame extraction exposes visual evidence; physical
replay provides feedback on the reconstructed interaction; validation checks structural requirements;
checkpointing preserves a candidate during refinement; and submission requests final delivery. None
of these operations returns reference annotations or benchmark scores. A checkpoint or submission
is validated on a protected copy, so subsequent edits to the working candidate cannot change a
previously accepted reconstruction.
The agent is informed whether preservation or submission succeeded, whether an error arose
from the candidate or the validation service, and how many submission opportunities remain. Only
a complete, internally consistent copy can become an accepted candidate. Validation establishes
compliance with the public submission requirements; it neither determines physical task success nor
changes the candidate selected for evaluation.


Video2World
24
Table A5. Benchmark operations during construction. The interface separates visual and physical observa-
tions, structural feedback, and candidate delivery. An accepted submission terminates generation; successful
validation alone does not.
Operation
Input
Agent-visible feedback
Effect on the episode
Frame extraction
Source video and
sampling specification
Frame references,
timestamps, and image
metadata
Makes frames available for
inspection; the candidate is
unchanged.
Physical replay
Candidate scene and
robot controls
Rendered rollout and
available execution
diagnostics
Supports inspection and revision
of the reconstruction; does not
submit or score it.
Validation
Candidate
reconstruction and task
configuration
Missing artifacts and
violations of the public
submission requirements
Construction continues; no
candidate is submitted.
Checkpointing
Candidate
reconstruction
Validation feedback and
confirmation of preservation
A valid candidate is retained as a
fallback during the permitted
refinement.
Submission
Candidate
reconstruction
Acceptance or validation
errors
Acceptance freezes the final
candidate and ends generation;
an invalid submission consumes
one opportunity.
A.5
Construction Budget and Feedback
Physical feedback during construction.
All benchmark configurations provide access to physical
rollout feedback, including rendered observations and execution diagnostics. Agents may inspect their
reconstructed interactions alongside the source video and revise both the environment and robot
behavior within the construction budget. Feedback is restricted to the agent’s own reconstruction;
reference annotations and benchmark scores remain unavailable. Final evaluation executes the
selected, frozen reconstruction without further agent revision.
Construction feedback is restricted to the candidate’s own scene, controls, rendered observations,
and available execution diagnostics. It does not expose reference geometry, source calibration,
reference controls, or hidden evaluation scores. A rollout becomes visual feedback when its rendered
observations are supplied to or opened by the agent; merely creating a video file is insufficient. The
agent compares these observations with the permitted source video. This construction loop is distinct
from final evaluation, which executes the selected, frozen package and computes the benchmark
outcomes without further agent revision. Candidate replay and final evaluation retain their respective
camera and registration conventions described in Section A.2.
Budget semantics.
Construction is bounded by the configured time and, where applicable, API-cost
allowance. There is no fixed episode-wide tool-call or model-turn budget. Coding, validation, and
rollout inspection take place within construction; the separate evaluation allowance is used after the
candidate is frozen. Submission opportunities constrain delivery attempts and do not limit the number
of analysis, editing, or inspection operations. Likewise, a per-command timeout or per-response output
limit is not an episode-wide tool-call budget. The model-specific stopping and candidate-selection
rules below determine which package is retained when construction ends.


Video2World
25
Scope of the construction protocols.
The following three paragraphs document the legacy reference
two-round authoring driver. The multi-model experiments additionally use a managed executor with
explicit submissions and protected checkpoints, and externally launched native coding agents. Their
respective stopping and delivery rules are specified below; the two-round default is not a model-turn
limit for those experiments.
The reference authoring driver allows at most two construction rounds: the initial task brief and,
if necessary, one repair round containing the concrete validation errors. Both rounds belong to one
attempt; the default adapter resumes the same agent session for the second round. Validation is
performed after each round, and construction stops at the first validation-passing submission or after
the second round. The package left by this process is handed to evaluation, including an invalid final
package if repair fails. A run producing no package is retained as a failed build. A fresh experimental
attempt must use a new run location, because the outer runner treats an existing submission as
completed work.
The configured outer limits are 10,800 s for construction and 5,400 s for evaluation, with timeout
status retained. These limits bound the respective runner processes; there is no additional fixed token
budget or tool-call count in the standard interface. The default author adapter requests Claude Opus 5
and exposes the the tool capabilities in Table A4; the benchmark also permits an explicitly configured
external author command. The requested model, adapter, command, and effective limits therefore
belong to each run record. These defaults describe the current interface and do not retroactively
establish the settings of every historical result.
Between rounds, feedback concerns the submitted package’s validity. During a round, the agent can
use available candidate-only simulation and inspection tools to refine its reconstruction. Such outputs
describe the consequences of its own scene and controls. Reference-based geometric errors, trajectory
errors, Task Progress, and Task Success are computed after construction and are not returned as
repair feedback.
Managed construction protocol.
The multi-model executor uses explicit submission rather than
the two-round return-and-validate procedure above. Each episode receives one generation attempt, a
cumulative construction allowance of 10,800 s, and a $60 observed API-cost threshold. Delayed usage
reporting may cause the billed cost to exceed the threshold. There is no fixed total number of model
turns or tool calls. A normal agent return without delivery can resume the same conversation and
workspace; three cumulative empty turns, defined as turns with neither a tool call nor a candidate,
terminate the attempt. Resource exhaustion and repeated interaction without progress may also stop
construction. A terminal method failure does not automatically trigger a fresh generation attempt.
Submission allowance and candidate selection.
After the first successful public validation, the
agent may submit immediately or save a checkpoint before one bounded refinement. Up to three
submission attempts are permitted. An invalid package or invalid submission path consumes an
attempt; a failure of the executor’s validation service does not. Saving a checkpoint neither consumes
nor replenishes submission opportunities. Once a valid checkpoint exists, only one optional refinement
checkpoint is permitted, before the 150-minute cutoff.
A successful explicit submission ends generation and determines the package evaluated, without
requiring a final natural-language response. If generation reaches the 165-minute deadline, the
latest valid executor-saved checkpoint is selected. An invalid revision cannot replace that checkpoint.


Video2World
26
Table A6. Construction schedule for benchmark-managed episodes. Times are cumulative within one
attempt. The first milestone is a prompt instruction; the generation and publication deadlines are enforced by
the executor.
Elapsed time
Construction and delivery policy
About 30 min
Complete an initial evidence-based candidate; validate it and repair missing or
malformed artifacts.
120 min
Restrict remaining work to completing and repairing delivery.
150 min
Close the optional refinement allowance.
165 min
Stop generation and new delivery requests; select the latest valid protected checkpoint if
no final submission has been accepted.
180 min
Complete process termination, integrity verification, and publication of the selected
candidate.
Unsaved workspace files and claims in an agent response are not eligible substitutes. The selected
package is frozen and verified before evaluation, and hidden scores never determine which candidate
is chosen. An episode without a valid delivery, or with an explicit failure or infeasibility declaration, is
retained as a method failure. Process-cleanup and package-integrity failures are classified separately
as executor faults.
Freezing the reconstruction.
The selected candidate fixes both 𝜂and 𝜋: scene assets, physical
parameters, initial configuration, camera estimates, controls, and their timing are preserved together.
Subsequent workspace edits and construction rollouts cannot alter that candidate. Evaluation and
any infrastructure rerun use the same package under the specified evaluator. A timeout without an
eligible submission or protected checkpoint yields a build failure; it does not create a candidate from
unfinished workspace files. Candidate selection uses the delivery protocol, without comparing hidden
scores across intermediate reconstructions.
Timeouts and infrastructure failures.
Model-service connection failures receive up to three request
retries. Persistent API failures enter a recovery queue with a 600 s cooldown and at most three
additional retests; the conversation, workspace, and cumulative construction budgets are preserved.
Episodes that exhaust service recovery are held for inspection rather than assigned a task outcome. A
validator infrastructure failure does not consume a submission or refinement opportunity.
Evaluation has a separate cumulative allowance of 5,400 s for reference execution, candidate
simulation, and metric computation. A pre-evaluation GPU probe has a separate 90 s timeout. A failed
probe requeues the unchanged package without consuming its evaluation allowance and removes that
GPU from admission; consecutive failures on two distinct GPUs pause the evaluation pool. Evaluator
timeouts, unavailable dependencies, missing outputs, and corrupt execution records are recorded
as infrastructure failures. They require a valid evaluation of the same frozen candidate before a
task outcome is assigned. An infrastructure rerun does not regenerate the reconstruction or select a
different workspace version. Candidate-caused invalidity and a physically executed failure remain
method outcomes.
Reproduction record.
Reproducing an interface run requires the source-video identity, assigned
configuration, fully substituted prompt and public handout, model and adapter invocation, effective


Video2World
27
budgets, submitted package, construction transcript, and physical execution record. The construction
record also identifies the candidate versions replayed, the rendered observations actually supplied to
the agent, and the feedback preceding each revision. Versioned source and asset hashes identify the
robot, simulator adapters, validation rules, and evaluation snapshot; recorded timesteps, initialization,
seeds, and state timestamps identify the executed dynamics. The prompt supplement records
the source snapshot used to prepare this section. Because simulator state, rendering, and solver
behavior depend on the runtime, matching an interface specification alone is not evidence of identical
trajectories across unverified installations.
A.6
Agent Initialization and Model Configurations
The experiment configuration identifies the model, agent framework, provider route, construction
budget, public interface specification, and evaluation version. Seven model configurations use
OpenCode 1.18.29 under the managed construction protocol. GPT-6 Astra uses Codex CLI 0.154.0-
alpha.6.2, and Fable-5.1 uses Claude Code 2.1.276. Table A7 gives the exact model identifiers and
inference settings. Provider fallback is disabled for the OpenCode configurations, and their per-
response output limit is 32,000 tokens including reasoning. The native coding agents retain the
output-length behavior of their pinned CLIs.
Table A7. Model configurations. The first seven rows use OpenCode and the model-identifier prefix
openrouter/. A dash denotes an unspecified reasoning-effort setting.
Model
Model identifier
Provider
Effort
DeepSeek V4.1
Flash
deepseek/deepseek-v4.1-flash
novita/fp8
–
GLM-5.3 Flash
z-ai/glm-5.3-flash
novita/fp8
–
Kimi K3
moonshotai/kimi-k3
moonshotai/mxfp4
–
GPT-5.6
openai/gpt-5.6-sol
openai
–
Gemini 3.8 Flash
google/gemini-3.8-flash
google-vertex/
global
High
Claude Opus 5
anthropic/claude-opus-5
anthropic
–
Qwen3.8 Max
qwen/qwen3.8-max-0902
alibaba
–
GPT-6 Astra
gpt-6-astra
Codex
Ultra
Fable-5.1
claude-fable-5-1
Claude Code
Max
Initialization of a single-video trial.
A trial is instantiated from the selected video, target em-
bodiment, public interface specification, and model configuration. Before the first model call, the
benchmark stages the permitted inputs, initializes empty analysis and output directories, and supplies
the fully substituted task brief to a fresh agent session. The same conversation and workspace persist
throughout construction. The selected candidate is subsequently transferred to the separate evaluation
process, which has access to the hidden annotations. Reproductions use the same input and configu-
ration versions and begin from a new session. Executable launch procedures and machine-specific
setup are provided with the reproducibility material.


Video2World
28
Native coding-agent sessions.
Astra and Fable operate on exported public task packages containing
the video, released resources, and instantiated brief. Each task package binds the source video,
target embodiment, released resources, and prompt revision. Their external supervisors provide
filesystem restrictions, API access, time accounting, and a local submission service. The native
model is launched with the settings in Table A7; framework-specific runtime settings accompany
the experimental configurations. The completed package, submission receipt, session record, and
transcript are imported into the benchmark evaluation queue.
These sessions use a 180-minute hard limit. The selected result is the last successful submission, or a
preserved checkpoint on timeout. Their local submission service does not by itself enforce the managed
executor’s complete staged-deadline and refinement policy. Accordingly, the 165-minute generation
cutoff and executor-managed counters in Table A6 apply to the OpenCode runs. Agent-framework
differences and Astra’s per-instance reasoning settings remain part of the reported experimental
configuration. The model configurations are associated with their own instance manifests and prompt
revisions; the current interface inventory is not substituted for those experimental manifests.
A.7
Task Prompts
The task brief combines configuration-specific instructions, the applicable submission contract, and
episode-specific information, including the video location, image dimensions, frame count, output
location, and public resources. The panels below summarize these instructions in publication notation,
using mathematical symbols and placeholders for episode-specific values. The submission schema is
specified in Table A3. Panels labeled verbatim preserve the recorded wording apart from the indicated
substitutions.
Construction feedback and session control.
All evaluated model configurations provide access
to candidate-only physical replay, rendered observations, and execution diagnostics. The shared
construction instruction below directs agents to inspect their simulated interactions alongside the
source video and revise the reconstruction as needed within the construction budget. Reference
annotations and benchmark scores remain unavailable during construction.
For benchmark-managed OpenCode runs, candidate delivery requires explicit submission or
selection of a protected checkpoint under the prescribed stopping rules; returning from an agent turn
does not itself deliver a candidate. The validation-repair prompt applies to the two-round reference
authoring driver. The managed-session continuation messages and executor-status template apply to
the benchmark-managed executor.
Shared construction instruction: physical rollout feedback
Execute the reconstructed scene with your proposed robot controls and inspect the rendered physical
rollout alongside the source video. Use the observed interaction and execution diagnostics to revise the
scene and controls as needed within the construction budget. If execution fails, use the reported error to
repair the candidate and replay it. Package validation alone does not replace physical execution and visual
inspection. Feedback concerns your own reconstruction; reference annotations and benchmark scores
are unavailable. Submit the completed candidate through the assigned delivery interface. The selected
package is fixed for subsequent evaluation.


Video2World
29
Reconstruction brief: rigid scene and Cartesian control
You are given one RGB video 𝑉with resolution 𝑊× 𝐻and 𝑇frames, and the public specification of the
assigned robot. Reconstruct the manipulated object, the receiving object or interacting surface, and the
surrounding geometry needed to reproduce the observed task. Infer the task from the video. Source robot
logs, depth, camera calibration, reference object geometry, and reference trajectories are not available.
Estimate object shape, size, initial pose, and camera intrinsics from the images. Preserve hollows and
openings that participate in contact. Represent static objects and supports separately from manipulated
objects. Express geometry and motion in the prescribed camera frame; for a moving camera, use the first
frame as the fixed coordinate system.
Supply your own absolute TCP poses and gripper commands at 5 Hz. Positions are in metres, rotations
follow 𝑅𝑧𝑅𝑦𝑅𝑥, and one denotes open while zero denotes closed. The first row specifies the initial TCP pose.
Re-plan the motion for the assigned embodiment while preserving the demonstrated object interaction
and outcome. Keep successive displacements within approximately 3 cm and rotations within 0.3 rad,
and finish at rest.
Deliver the scene, camera estimate, controls, object-motion estimates at the video timestamps, local
geometry assets, annotated evidence frames, and a report of observations, assumptions, and uncertainty.
Check that the grasp and release commands agree with the reconstructed object and goal locations. Run
the assigned package validator and repair any reported errors. Write only in the designated output and
temporary directories. Do not obtain the source dataset’s ground truth or calibration.
Embodiment supplement: human video to paired hands
Reconstruct the manipulated object, visible support, and relevant receiving objects, and perform the
interaction with a left and a right Wuji hand. Both hands are available even if only one human hand is
visible. An unused hand must receive stationary commands.
Supply synchronized palm poses and twenty finger angles for each hand. Both sides share one timestep,
a positive multiple of 1/300 s. Use the public palm axes, finger ordering, joint limits, and force-limited
control specification. Finger angles determine posture; the palm stream’s gripper indicator is informational.
Express all poses and object-motion estimates in the first camera frame.
Model a drawer with a passive prismatic joint and a door with a passive revolute joint. Preserve collision
clearances and cavities. Do not attach objects to robot links or prescribe object motion during simulation.
Include both hands in release reasoning and report uncertainty in the proposed task completion.
Reconstruction brief: native dual-arm environments
You are given an RGB video and the public specifications of the assigned simulator and robot. Infer the
demonstrated task, participating objects, and their roles from the video. Reconstruct the visible geometry,
supports, scale, and initial poses, and provide your own joint commands. Make manipulated objects
dynamic and preserve physical collisions. Use only the staged inputs, public resources, and feedback from
your own reconstruction.
Express scene poses in the OpenCV camera frame and provide a rigid transform from that frame to the
public robot world. Joint commands are expressed in the robot’s named joint frames. For RoboDojo,
estimate the full optical pose and focal length; supply the assigned 14- or 16-value controls at 25 Hz,
with zero meaning closed and one open. For the household robot, supply the 20-value arm, waist, head,
and gripper controls at 20 Hz, with zero meaning open and one closed. Derive the first-frame camera
transform from your estimated initial waist/head configuration and the public camera mount, as in Eq. 6.
Deliver the manifest, scene description, finite action matrix, local geometry assets, and reconstruction
report. Object motion must result from robot actuation and simulation. An expected object trajectory is


Video2World
30
Reconstruction brief: native dual-arm environments (continued)
neither required nor executed. Validate the package against the assigned submission requirements. Do
not access hidden source layouts, source camera calibration, reference controls, or reference execution
records.
Reconstruction brief: rope and soft-toy environments
Reconstruct the video as a native MuJoCo scene using the supplied xArm7 robot and articulated gripper.
Read the public robot description and preserve its internal body geometry, actuators, mechanical couplings,
and adjacent-link collision exclusions. Estimate the base placement from the first camera frame.
Model the manipulated object with passive bodies, an articulated chain, or deformable elements, and
model the receiver with physical colliding surfaces. Set gravity consistently with the first camera frame.
Supply eight joint controls in radians, with gripper angle zero for open and 0.85 for closed. Use the
specified 50 𝜇s physics timestep and preserve the gripper coupling and command-rate limits.
Identify the robot, manipulated object, and receiving structure as disjoint physical roles. For rope routing,
preserve the connected rope and the open channel between the receiver walls. Use no object actuators,
artificial attachments, motion-capture drivers, or object-state overrides. Include the video, scene, controls,
assets, and a report of uncertainties. Run structural validation and physical replay. A completed replay is
not a benchmark task judgment. Read no hidden sample metadata, calibration, or reference trajectory.
Validation-repair prompt (verbatim apart from substitutions)
Your package at [output location] does not validate:
– [validation errors]
Fix it (same rules apply) and re-run the validate command.
Managed-session continuation: no tool call or candidate (verbatim)
The previous turn ended without a tool call or delivery. Continue the task from the existing workspace
and conversation; inspect existing artifacts, do not repeat completed steps; when a package passes public
validate, call ‘python public/v2_tools.py submit <pkg_dir>‘.
Managed-session continuation: candidate or checkpoint present (verbatim)
No explicit submission received. Call python public/v2_tools.py submit <pkg_dir> to deliver within your
remaining allowance.
The executor also appends a status message to the latest tool observation, or supplies it as a
system prefix before the first tool result. The message reports elapsed time, remaining generation
time, construction phase, the existence of a valid checkpoint, remaining submission and refinement
opportunities, and media usage. The following template preserves the field order and fixed wording;
angle-bracket fields are populated from the episode state.


Video2World
31
[executor-status/1]
{"revision":"executor-status/1","elapsed_s":<seconds>,"remaining_s":<seconds>,"stage":<
phase>,"valid_checkpoint":<boolean>,"submit_remaining":<count>,"refinement_remaining
":<count>,"media_remaining":<media-status>,"removed_images":<count>}
Removed images are visible placeholders. Re-read an image to attach it again within the
remaining media budget.
[/executor-status/1]
Because agent frameworks differ in their internal tool use, context management, and candidate-
selection behavior, comparisons in this paper should be interpreted as comparisons among complete
coding-agent configurations rather than controlled estimates of isolated backbone-model capability.
B
Benchmark Construction and Reference Annotations
Benchmark construction establishes the correspondence between a source demonstration and the
quantities evaluated in simulation: task-relevant geometry, object motion, and interaction outcomes.
Each video is paired with a target robot and simulator, together with hidden annotations defining
these quantities. Annotation provenance distinguishes source measurements, estimates fitted to
observations, and reconstructed physical targets. The human-assisted reference (HAR) is constructed
using these resources and evaluated against the same applicable targets as coding-agent submissions.
B.1
Data Sources and Video Selection
We collect videos from FurnitureBench, DROID, RoboDojo, HOI4D, HOT3D, DexYCB, OakInk2,
an in-house household collection, and reconstructed digital-twin demonstrations of planar pushing,
rope routing, and soft-toy packing. These sources vary in demonstrator embodiment, viewpoint,
object properties, and interaction structure. RoboDojo supplies simulation-generated demonstrations;
the other groups include recorded real-world interactions. The digital-twin group contains three
planar-pushing, five rope-routing, and two soft-toy clips, using real videos with reconstructed physical
targets.
The benchmark contains 189 distinct source video clips and 222 reconstruction instances across 39
task families (Table A8). Each instance pairs a source video with a target simulator, robot embodiment,
and control interface. The 33 human-demonstration clips each have an arm and a bimanual-hand
configuration. A clip is a selected temporal window, not necessarily an independent acquisition
episode: the 64 furniture clips come from 46 original episodes, and some human clips share a longer
recording. All 222 instances are included in the main evaluation.
Selection and coverage.
Selection retains the initial configuration, the task-defining interaction,
and the available terminal context. A visible task label alone is insufficient: the clip is reviewed
to establish what interaction actually occurs, including whether it begins with an object already
held or ends before release. Furniture windows are capped at eight per assembly step and two per
leg-insertion step, covering 25 assembly steps. The retained-window ordering uses reference execution
outcome, then agreement with the official terminal assembly pose, and finally a deterministic sample
identifier. This construction choice favors reconstructable windows within the cap and is part of
the selection policy. Unsuccessful selected references remain in the inventory. Human-video and


Video2World
32
Table A8. Composition of the construction inventory. Clips count distinct staged video windows; instances
count clip–configuration pairs. Embodiments include the end effector. Shared recordings and reuse across
embodiments are retained in the provenance.
Video source
Clips Instances Target embodiment
FurnitureBench
64
64 Panda
DROID
20
20 Panda/Robotiq (18); cloth gripper (2)
RoboDojo
25
25 Dual X5 or dual xArm7
HOI4D
9
18 Panda; paired Wuji hands
HOT3D
7
14 Panda; paired Wuji hands
DexYCB
11
22 Panda; paired Wuji hands
OakInk2
6
12 Panda; paired Wuji hands
In-house household
37
37 G1 with Omnipicker grippers
Reconstructed twins
10
10 xArm7 with pusher or articulated gripper
Total
189
222 Source-specific configurations above
household admissions follow documented clip-level review; clip boundaries, source identifiers, and
exclusions are retained.
Source-specific annotation procedures.
Auxiliary source information supports hidden annotations
and is unavailable as episode evidence to the evaluated coding agent. Table A9 distinguishes infor-
mation supplied by each source from the annotation work needed to make it usable for evaluation.
Robot assets remain public as described in Section A.1. Geometric and trajectory coverage is source-
dependent: a partial visible surface or an estimated orientation axis is not treated as a complete
object model or a fully observed rigid pose.
B.2
Task Organization and Dataset Composition
The benchmark comprises 39 task families used as fixed evaluation groups. Family assignments
reflect source-specific task categories, target embodiments, and annotation configurations, as listed
in Figure A1. A reconstruction instance pairs a video with a target simulator, robot embodiment, and
control interface; family assignments provide the grouping for task-level reporting. The manifest
links each instance to its source sequence, clip boundaries, participating entities, and annotation
version, including shared recordings across windows and embodiments. Family-specific conditions
are given in Section C.3.
Family inventory.
Figure A1 lists every family and its number of reconstruction instances. The labels
describe the interaction and retain the embodiment or annotation variant used in the fixed family
assignments. F01–F09 cover furniture seating and assembly; F10–F11 cover DROID rigid manipulation
and cloth folding; F12–F19 cover human-demonstrated placement or lifting under the two target
embodiments. F20–F21 contain the native RoboDojo interactions for dual X5 and dual xArm7.
These include pickup, tube and charger insertion, block and bowl stacking, tower construction, digit
arrangement, category and size sorting, object exchange, and ordered covering/uncovering. Tower
construction has one X5 instance; the other twelve native tasks have one instance per embodiment.
F22–F36 cover household placement, pickup with retained holding, initially held insertion, and


Video2World
33
Table A9. Evidence used to construct the hidden annotations. The middle column identifies available source
information; the last identifies the processing and modeling needed for benchmark evaluation. Reconstructed
twins supply modeled targets.
Source
Available source evidence
Benchmark annotation work
FurnitureBench
CAD, tags, calibrated cameras, and
robot logs.
Register part poses; fit grasp offsets to bridge
occlusions during verified holding.
DROID
Calibrated RGB-D, multiple views,
and robot kinematics.
Fit object geometry and poses; reconstruct supports
and cavities; track visible cloth surfaces.
RoboDojo
Native assets and synchronized
simulation states.
Export geometry, cameras, and trajectories from the
same execution as the video.
HOI4D
Instance CAD, object boxes, object
poses, and camera trajectories.
Compose object and camera poses in a gravity-aligned
frame; model supporting surfaces.
HOT3D
Object CAD and tracked
object/camera poses.
Register trajectories; identify supports and
static/dynamic roles.
DexYCB
YCB meshes, calibrated views, and
object/hand poses.
Convert pose units and frames; estimate support
height from initial mesh bottoms.
OakInk2
Task programs, part scans, motion
capture, and camera calibration.
Select primitive segments; infer articulation from
relative part motion; construct collision
approximations.
Household
Registered assets, RGB-D
observations, and source
recordings.
Estimate geometry and poses or visible surfaces; retain
view dependence and uncertain intervals.
Reconstructed
twins
Reconstructed geometry and rigid
or particle trajectories.
Freeze the modeled target and its provenance; adapt
the simulation to the target robot.
basket extraction. Their labels distinguish the retained pose, object-origin, visible-surface, and
wallet annotation variants. F37–F39 cover planar pushing, rope routing, and soft-toy packing.
The accompanying family catalogue records the objective and instance membership for each label,
preserving the manifest’s assignments without merging families that share a broad verb such as
“place”. Metric-specific eligibility is specified in Section C.4.
B.3
Hidden Evaluation Specifications
Each instance has a source-derived or explicitly reconstructed evaluation specification. The specifi-
cation links persistent object identities to geometry, demonstrated motion, and task requirements.
Provenance, uncertainty, and visibility masks identify the quantities and intervals that support evalu-
ation. Human-assisted reference outputs are experimental submissions and do not replace source
observations.
Entities and scene geometry.
Entities include manipulated objects, receivers, supports, articulated
structures, and relevant obstacles. Persistent identifiers link each entity’s geometry, trajectory, and
task annotations. The scene records metric dimensions, initial poses, and passive articulation where
present. Evaluation geometry and simulator geometry are distinguished when collision decomposition,
primitive fitting, or an articulation conversion changes the representation. A support or cavity inferred
from incomplete observations retains that status; a visually plausible reconstruction is not relabeled


Video2World
34
39 task families  ·  222 reconstruction instances
FurnitureBench
F01  Bulb seating
8
F02  Lampshade placement
8
F03  Cabinet-top assembly
6
F04  Cabinet-door assembly
5
F05  Chair-back assembly
1
F06  Drawer insertion
5
F07  Corner-leg insertion
26
F08  Chair-nut seating
3
F09  Central-base assembly
2
DROID
F10  DROID rigid manipulation
18
F11  DROID cloth folding
2
Human demonstrations
F12  HOT3D placement
arm
7
F13  HOT3D placement
hands
7
F14  DexYCB lifting
arm
11
F15  DexYCB lifting
hands
11
F16  HOI4D placement
arm
9
F17  HOI4D placement
hands
9
F18  OakInk2 placement
arm
6
F19  OakInk2 placement
hands
6
0
10
20
Instances
RoboDojo
F20  RoboDojo interaction
dual X5
13
F21  RoboDojo interaction
dual xArm7
12
Household
F22  Book placement
1
F23  Box placement
1
F24  Bottle pickup
1
F25  Cracker-box pickup
1
F26  Remote-control pickup
1
F27  Lift and hold
episode poses
6
F28  Held-object placement
episode poses
2
F29  Lift and hold
reviewed poses
2
F30  Held rigid-object insertion
2
F31  Wallet lifting
1
F32  Held-wallet insertion
1
F33  Lift and hold
object-origin points
5
F34  Lift and hold
visible-surface points
9
F35  Held placement
visible-surface points
3
F36  Air-fryer basket extraction
1
Reconstructed twins
F37  Planar T-body pushing
3
F38  Rope routing
5
F39  Soft-toy packing
2
0
10
20
Instances
Figure A1. Complete task-family inventory. Each bar is one family in the fixed construction manifest, and
its label gives the number of video–configuration pairs. The 39 counts sum to 222 instances. Arm and hand
variants count separately; their underlying source clips are shared. Family identifiers F01–F39 index the
accompanying catalogue. Counts describe the construction inventory rather than a model’s successful builds or
the metric-specific evaluable subset.
as a direct measurement.
Demonstrated object motion.
Rigid annotations contain positions and orientations; articulated
annotations additionally record the relevant joint coordinate when available. Rope and soft-toy
targets retain time-indexed particles or surfaces. Cloth uses camera-visible surface points from


Video2World
35
stereo reconstruction with object masks and robot-occlusion removal. Household point and wallet
annotations retain their view and visibility conditions. Such surface records do not automatically
establish material-point correspondence or a unique rigid rotation. Coordinate transforms, metres,
seconds, scalar-first quaternions, source frame indices, and validity masks are recorded explicitly.
Interpolation and occlusion handling follow the source procedure rather than a universal smoother.
Furniture tracking combines tag observations with an object–tool transform and tag-based residual
corrections during verified held intervals; offset residuals beyond 3 cm or 20◦from the segment
median are excluded before temporal smoothing. Gaps in released static segments require compatible
bracketing observations (within 1.5 cm and 10◦), an admissible gripper state, and the configured gap
limit. These are annotation-construction checks, not task-success tolerances. DROID combines visible
pose fits with measured tool motion during carrying. Released human-dataset poses undergo the
recorded coordinate conversions; interpolated and estimated intervals remain identifiable. Household
visibility masks preserve unsupported intervals instead of treating them as observations. Validity
masks are shared across methods and are not selected from candidate errors.
Illustrative annotation.
Figure A2 follows a HOI4D bottle transfer from the initial support to the
receiving table. The clip contains 87 frames at 15 Hz (source frames 42–128), with released bottle
geometry of approximately 7.07×7.00×22.13 cm. Object and camera poses are composed in a fixed
annotation frame, associating the same object with its motion and the receiving surface despite
camera movement. The bottle rises by a maximum of 29.2 cm and ends 13.6 cm above its initial
height. The annotation specifies pickup and release at clip indices 15 and 80, while the terminal
predicate additionally requires the goal pose, support, release, and rest conditions shown in the figure.
The receiving support’s lateral extent is estimated from the available observations.
Task requirements and initial conditions.
The task specification identifies the initial object rela-
tions, the events that define the observed interaction, and the terminal goal. A clip beginning with
an object already held requires the subsequent transport and, where demonstrated, release; it does
not require an unobserved pickup. A clip beginning with an object supported requires the transfer
appropriate to that starting relation. These conditions constrain the interaction without requiring
exact agreement with every source pose.
For placement goals, a favorable initial arrangement alone earns no completion. If the submitted
object initially satisfies the goal relation, it must leave that relation and complete a new placement
within the same manipulation attempt, including any required release and stability conditions. An
initially satisfied goal is therefore not an automatic rejection of the entire reconstruction, but it cannot
receive credit for remaining unchanged. The initial relation is evaluated before the first action; a
post-action state cannot substitute for it. For a moving receiver, object–receiver relations use both
poses at the same timestamp.
Required events are associated with the manipulated object and a single attempt. Release and
stability require recorded evidence when the task calls for them. A release of another object or a
nominal settling delay does not establish the required event. Incidental grasp choice and exact source
robot motion are generally unrestricted. Native task rules can additionally require robot return to
the home configuration; these explicit completion conditions are retained. These requirements are
recorded with the task annotation and instantiated by the evaluation rules in Section C.3.


Video2World
36
Source frame 48
Grasp  |  0.40 s
Source frame 57
Pickup  |  1.00 s
Source frame 87
Transport  |  3.00 s
Source frame 122
Release  |  5.33 s
0
1
2
3
4
5
Source-video time (s)
0
10
20
30
40
50
Distance from initial position (cm)
Grasp
Pickup
Release
(a) Source-derived object motion
Vertical rise
3D displacement
0
10
20
30
40
50
Relative y (cm)
−20
−10
0
10
Relative x (cm)
Initial
Pickup
Release
5 cm position tolerance (projection)
(b) Motion between support locations
Figure A2. From a video demonstration to an object-level evaluation specification. The manually
drawn outlines identify the same bottle in frames A–C; they are visual guides, not segmentation annotations.
Corresponding points on its annotated height trajectory identify the initial support, transport, and receiving
support; dashed lines mark the annotated pickup and release. The conditions at right define acceptable terminal
placement, supplementing the required transfer. The curve is computed from source object poses, while the
conditions are the evaluation targets; neither is a robot-execution result.
From observations to task conditions.
We identify the object relation that changes in the source
clip and the events needed to establish that change. A placement annotation links transport to the
receiving surface and, when demonstrated, release; removal requires the object to leave its original
container; assembly identifies the part and its intended interface. Clip boundaries determine whether
acquisition or release is observed and therefore required. The resulting condition is checked against
the source frames and the annotated geometry before being used to assess an execution.
Physical trials and inspection of alternative solutions then test whether the condition captures the
intended interaction. For example, support alone does not establish removal from a container, and
an apparently seated furniture part may still correspond to the wrong interface. The family-specific
predicates and numerical tolerances are collected in Section C.3. Here we document their source
evidence and the review process through which ambiguities and errors are resolved.
B.4
Worked Example: From Video Input to Scored Execution
We trace one DROID upright-bottle instance through the complete interface, using the saved GPT-6
Astra submission from the visual-refinement experiment. Figure A3 shows its input and physical
execution. The example uses the unchanged submitted package and recorded rollout, scored under
the current definitions in Section C; no new agent construction or simulation was performed. It is an
illustrative instance, not an aggregate model result.
Video, target configuration, and visible resources.
The input is an 83-frame, 640×640 RGB clip
at 7.5 Hz from a fixed external camera, covering original episode indices 64–228 at stride two. Its
first-to-last observation interval is 10.93 s. The visible interaction is to pick up the smaller bottle lying


Video2World
37
on the table, turn it upright, and release it on the support. The assigned target is a Panda arm with a
Robotiq 2F-85 gripper in SAPIEN, controlled by absolute TCP pose and gripper commands at 5 Hz.
The agent receives the video, a contact sheet extracted from it, the public robot dimensions and
TCP conventions, and the submission specification. The refinement round additionally supplies its
first-pass package, a candidate-only initial render, a montage of that package’s executed actions,
and diagnostics reporting execution completion, inverse-kinematics error, and rest. The controller
produces these simulator observations between rounds. The agent may inspect source frames, edit
the package, and check its geometry and schema; this experiment does not give it direct simulator
execution. In this worked example, the controller executes the candidate between rounds and supplies
rendered observations and execution diagnostics to the agent for refinement. Hidden calibration,
source object geometry and motion, task annotations, and scores are withheld. The archived full briefs
and delivered feedback distinguish the original construction inputs from the subsequent refinement
inputs.
Entity correspondence and hidden annotations.
The manipulated entity is the smaller bottle,
matched to the submission’s moving green capped bottle; the receiving support is matched to
its tabletop. The stationary bottle, glass, bowl, and cooker are contextual candidate geometry,
not additional motion targets. The reference bottle is a human-reviewed fit to calibrated source
observations, with full oriented-bounding-box dimensions of approximately 7.79×7.79×14.36 cm.
Its 83 annotated poses, the support model, timestamps, and withheld camera registration establish
geometry and motion targets in the common evaluation frame. The reference bottle begins nearly
horizontal, with its axis approximately 87.53◦from vertical.
The active task annotation requires an upright bottle supported by the submitted tabletop, followed
by release and rest. The bottle’s neck determines the directed upright axis when the geometry resolves
it. The terminal tilt must be at most 30◦from the support normal; support uses a 1 cm clearance
tolerance and 5 mm footprint margin. Initial satisfaction alone cannot establish a new placement. The
saved brief and original annotation predate the revised bottle rule and retain an absolute-endpoint
condition; the current semantic predicate above governs this example’s score. Absolute placement
discrepancy remains visible in the geometric and motion diagnostics.
Submission and recorded execution.
The final package contains the reconstructed bottle mesh,
tabletop and contextual geometry, estimated camera and robot placement, and a 97×7 control array
with interval 0.2 s. It also includes an 83×7 estimated object-pose sequence, which is a declaration
rather than an animation command. For scoring, the evaluator converts the camera-frame delivery
into the evaluation frame using the withheld registration. Physical execution applies the submitted
controls and records the bottle’s states, gripper state, grasp/release events, and final rest condition.
The saved rollout contains 97 object states. On its declared observation clock, grasp is detected at
0.4 s, transport at 2.6 s, release at 12.8 s, and terminal completion at 19.2 s. These times identify the
scoring record; the exported video’s playback rate is not a physics clock. Motion fidelity uses the 83
demonstration timestamps, with nearest-state correspondence and full recording coverage. Forty-one
execution states lie beyond that comparison window. They remain available for the functional decision,
which includes the later release and terminal state. Thus, a longer successful interaction can still
incur temporal motion error.


Video2World
38
Source: frame 0
0.00 s
Source: frame 41
5.47 s
Source: frame 82
10.93 s
Execution: frame 0
0.00 s
Execution: frame 48
9.60 s
Execution: frame 96
19.20 s
0
5
10
15
20
Declared observation time (s)
0
5
10
15
Vertical displacement (cm)
Release
(a) Bottle motion
Demonstration
Physical execution
0
2
4
6
8
10
Demonstration time (s)
0
5
10
15
Translation error (cm)
Mean APE = 7.77 cm
(b) Motion error
Figure A3. A complete evaluated reconstruction. Top: three frames from the agent’s RGB input. Middle:
three frames of its submitted controls executed in its reconstructed scene; the displayed times use the recorded
observation clock. Bottom left: annotated and executed bottle-height changes after the object-frame correspon-
dence used for scoring. The shaded tail lies beyond the demonstration’s motion-comparison window, while
functional evaluation still uses its release and terminal state. Bottom right: per-frame translation discrepancy
on the demonstration clock, whose mean is 7.77 cm. The recorded interaction succeeds despite temporal and
geometric discrepancies. Full videos, annotations, controls, execution records, and scoring inputs accompany
this example.
Inputs to the decision procedure.
The scoring procedure receives four linked records: the validated
scene and control package; the build receipt and entity correspondence; the executed object poses,
terminal poses, grasp/release events, gripper state, and rest flag; and the hidden scene, source poses,
camera registration, and active task specification. Geometry is evaluated from the initialized package.
Motion is evaluated from the recorded execution, not the submitted pose estimates. The task decision
checks the same moving bottle throughout: the initial upright goal is false, the terminal bottle is
released and at rest, its support projection is admissible, and its directed axis differs from the tabletop
normal by approximately 0.009◦. The recorded support gap has magnitude below 0.01 mm, within the
prescribed tolerance. These conditions yield success and all four progress stages under the assigned
rigid profile. They do not constitute a separate certification of every possible contact or collision.


Video2World
39
Final scores and retained evidence.
Build and Task Success are both one, and Task Progress is
100%. The continuous scores are
(Scene CD, Shape CD, Size, Centre) = (2.51, 3.58, 5.76, 24.80) cm,
(translation APE, translation RPE) = (7.77, 0.68) cm,
(rotation APE, terminal axis error) = (9.27◦, 1.78◦).
(7)
Terminal displacement error is 4.57 cm. It is measured relative to each trajectory’s initial object
position, whereas the 24.80 cm centre error retains the initialized placement discrepancy. The low
registered Scene CD therefore does not imply accurate absolute placement, and successful upright
placement does not imply accurate bottle dimensions. No composite score is formed. The example
supplement retains the input and rollout videos, full public prompts and feedback, both submitted and
evaluation-frame packages, hidden annotations, active scoring rules, per-frame arrays, full-precision
scores, and file hashes. A record-scoring entry point reproduces the measurements from these saved
inputs without rerunning the agent or simulator.
B.5
Human-Assisted Reference
The HAR is developed separately for each instance through scene construction, robot-control
design, and iterative physical testing. Source geometry, motion annotations, robot logs, and existing
simulation assets provide the initial reconstruction; inspection of grasping, transport, insertion,
and release guides subsequent revisions. The selected reference comprises both the reconstructed
environment and the robot behavior that was executed in it.
This workflow permits access to source annotations, simulator states, task predicates, and evalua-
tion scores. Consequently, comparison with coding agents measures the performance of reconstruction
with additional information and human engineering, with selected execution identities and the avail-
able construction histories retained.
Construction by source.
Furniture references use source geometry and robot/object motion to
initialize grasps and transport, followed by physical approach, contact verification, alignment, and
release. The current 64 selected furniture executions use PD arm and gripper control with frictional
holding; their execution conditions are detailed below.
DROID references combine estimated object geometry with recorded robot motion or object-guided
control fitting, retaining the derivation used by the selected package. Human-video references use
released hand observations where available, object trajectories, and geometric contact selection to
initialize target robot poses. In a carried segment, an initial grasp transform maps object motion
into tool targets; physical execution determines whether the grasp actually holds. Contact search
and optimization can revise wrist/palm poses and finger controls using object-motion, hand-pose,
contact, and validity feedback. RoboDojo uses native task assets and recorded joint-control executions.
Household references retain the selected source simulation or documented native reconstruction, with
its own state and video identity. Pushing, rope, and toy references adapt the frozen reconstructed
twins to the target robot and native execution mechanics.
Additional information by source.
Table A10 identifies the resources beyond the agent’s RGB input
that support each reference workflow. These resources can supply geometry, calibration, motion, or
an existing physical execution, rather than merely assisting visual interpretation. Their reuse is part


Video2World
40
Table A10. Information available to human-assisted reconstruction beyond RGB. Inputs vary by source
and instance. The final column describes their use in constructing the selected reference; it does not claim that
all assets were reconstructed from video. The evaluated coding agents do not receive these source-specific
annotations or reference executions.
Source
Additional annotations and assets
Use in reference construction
FurnitureBench
Part CAD, calibrated part/robot motion,
assembly targets, simulator state.
Reuse part and collision assets; initialize grasps
and transport; refine contact, alignment, and
release.
DROID
Fitted object/support geometry,
calibration, robot kinematics, object
motion; visible cloth surfaces.
Initialize scene and controls from source records;
fit object-guided motion and refine execution. The
two cloth references retain their declared assisted
grasp mechanism.
RoboDojo
Native scenes, robot and object assets,
task rules, recorded controls and states.
Adapt the recorded native task execution to the
benchmark interface.
HOI4D
Instance CAD, object and camera
trajectories, fitted support, available
hand observations.
Retarget object transport to the arm or hands;
optimize contact using annotated motion.
HOT3D
Object CAD, tracked object/camera
motion, available hand poses, support
estimates.
Initialize grasp and transport, then refine
wrist/palm and finger controls.
DexYCB
YCB meshes, calibrated views,
object/hand poses, estimated support
height.
Reuse geometry and pose observations to
construct and refine lifting behavior.
OakInk2
Part scans, calibrated motion capture,
task segments, hand/wrist motion.
Prepare geometry and object/hand-guided control
targets; refine contact execution.
Household
Source assets, accepted RGB-D pose or
surface estimates, paired source
simulation or recovered execution
records.
Retain the selected recorded simulation or
documented native reconstruction, preserving its
state/video identity.
Reconstructed
twins
Frozen reconstructed geometry and
rigid/particle motion; robot and native
simulation assets.
Adapt the reconstructed target to xArm7 pushing,
rope routing, or toy packing.
of the HAR method. In the furniture feedback controller, privileged simulator object state also guides
execution. Accordingly, the reference measures source-assisted reconstruction and robot engineering;
it does not estimate unaided human reconstruction from RGB.
Human effort and recorded iterations.
The retained records do not provide systematically mea-
sured person-hours or a complete count of manual interventions by source. Human inspection, asset
preparation, controller development, and automated search were interleaved. Process runtimes, file
timestamps, and optimizer evaluations therefore cannot be converted into human labor. We report
the coverage of identifiable trial ledgers and leave unrecorded human-time totals unspecified, rather
than imputing a uniform budget.
Figure A4(b) summarizes two documented campaigns. The furniture campaign covers 64 instances
with 128 attempt records, including two pilots: 127 contain complete physical records and one records


Video2World
41
a rendering-initialization interruption. Attempts per instance range from one to six, with median two.
A separately audited human-video contact-search batch covers 20 of the 66 arm/hand configurations:
177 physical trial records for six HOI4D configurations, 118 for four HOT3D configurations, 177 for
six DexYCB configurations, and 114 for four OakInk2 configurations. Each covered configuration
has 26–31 records, including baseline, seeded, and optimized trials. These counts describe saved
simulator trials within those campaigns, not manual editing iterations or the total historical effort
for each source. DROID, RoboDojo, household, and reconstructed-twin histories lack a comparably
consolidated attempt count in this audit; their missing totals are not zero.
Evaluation feedback and unsuccessful references.
Reference development permits access to
task predicates, reference-based errors, physical diagnostics, and success/progress judgments. The
furniture campaign uses scored retries and observed contact failures; the human-video search records
use annotated object/hand errors and contact/validity feedback. These workflows are consequently
informed by evaluation targets. For reused native or source executions, the retained evidence
establishes the selected run and its outcome but does not provide a complete history of how often a
person consulted scores. We make no claim of evaluation-blind development for any source.
Both successful and unsuccessful selected references are retained in the benchmark. All 222
instances have a selected reference execution and are included in functional evaluation. The selected
execution records the retained reconstruction, not first-attempt success. Earlier failures remain in the
available construction histories but do not become additional test instances. Figure A4(a) gives the
source-level counts. All 222 instances have a selected execution receipt; this records the retained
reconstruction, not first-attempt success. Earlier failures are retained in the available construction
histories but do not become additional test instances. The furniture source-selection cap described in
Section B.1 remains a separate, outcome-informed admission choice.
Interpretation of the reference score.
HAR achieves 58.8% Task Success, macro-averaged with
equal weight across the 39 task families covering all 222 benchmark instances, consistent with
Table 2. The score characterizes the selected outcomes of source-assisted reconstruction and human
engineering. It does not isolate human visual-reconstruction ability or performance under the coding
agents’ information and construction budgets. Together, the resource disclosure, trial coverage,
feedback policy, and retained failures specify the scope of this comparison.
For instance 𝑖, the reference and its execution are
𝑃ℎ
𝑖= (𝜂ℎ
𝑖, 𝜋ℎ
𝑖),
𝜏ℎ
𝑖= R𝑐ℎ
𝑖(𝜂ℎ
𝑖, 𝜋ℎ
𝑖).
(8)
Here 𝑐ℎ
𝑖records the simulator, embodiment, controller, initialization, and observation settings used for
the selected HAR execution. The HAR scene 𝜂ℎ
𝑖is evaluated against the annotated reference geometry
𝜂∗
𝑖, although the two may share source assets. Shared assets and conversions are documented.
When HAR directly reuses evaluation geometry, its geometric score measures correspondence to that
geometry and does not independently establish reconstruction ability from RGB. Demonstrated object
trajectories provide the motion-evaluation targets, while 𝜏ℎ
𝑖records the execution of the selected HAR
program.
Execution conditions and comparison.
HAR and coding-agent reconstructions are evaluated
against the same applicable geometry, motion, and task-completion targets using common metric


Video2World
42
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Selected reconstruction instances
FurnitureBench
DROID
RoboDojo
HOI4D
HOT3D
DexYCB
OakInk2
Household
Reconstructed twins
16
18
16
3
5
13
3
31
8
48
2
9
15
9
9
9
6
2
(a) Reference outcomes
128  (64/64 instances)
Not consolidated
Not consolidated
177  (6/18 instances)
118  (4/14 instances)
177  (6/22 instances)
114  (4/12 instances)
Not consolidated
Not consolidated
(b) Audited trial records
Success
Failure
Figure A4. Source-level reference outcomes and recorded construction effort. Left: outcomes of the
selected references under the current evaluation snapshot, including failures and suspended task targets. These
are instance counts; the headline score instead gives equal weight to task families. Right: trial counts from
the two audited campaigns, with the number of covered configurations relative to that source’s inventory.
Unconsolidated histories are explicitly marked. Trial records do not measure human person-hours or complete
manual-iteration counts, and coverage differs across sources.
definitions. Each method executes its own robot behavior in its own reconstructed scene. Execution
settings are recorded for each method.
For the furniture configurations, both HAR and the coding-agent executor use 100 Hz physics
integration and 20 Hz joint control. HAR observes the terminal state for 10 s, while the coding-agent
executor uses 1 s of terminal settling. HAR uses PD arm and gripper control, a friction coefficient
of 1, and a 70 N finger-force limit, without grasp attachments, pose snapping, or assembly latches.
The coding-agent executor additionally permits the bounded initial grasp-alignment correction and,
for applicable insertion tasks, the seating-retention approximation described in Appendix A.2. These
differences can affect contact outcomes and terminal stability.
The reported comparison therefore evaluates the complete reconstruction workflows, including
differences in information access, human refinement, and recorded execution conditions. Isolating
the effect of the construction method alone would require matched execution conditions.
Human trials and alternative solutions.
Construction involved author-directed attempts, inspec-
tion of alternative solutions, and explicit review of failed interactions. The furniture campaign covers
64 instances from 46 original episodes. It records 126 launches for the main campaign: 125 com-
pleted physical records and one rendering-initialization interruption, plus two earlier pilot records.
Completion of a record includes unsuccessful or early-aborted task execution. Revisions included
sustained bilateral-contact confirmation, gripper-width feedback, lift verification, measured in-hand
pose, grasp-axis search, slower release, and stopping after loss of hold.
A subsequent two-task study tested two alternatives each for a desk leg and a cabinet door. All


Video2World
43
four completed physical trials failed; four initialization diagnostics and two early stops were retained
separately. The leg trials compared height-aligned insertion with additional small contact searches.
Door trials examined 47 grasp candidates and an expanded set of 576 candidates, with geometric
and kinematic rejection reasons retained. These attempts exposed a missing door-axis/interface
annotation: the annotated endpoint itself was rejected by the old target rule. The response was to
repair the task specification and re-evaluate saved execution, rather than interpreting every failed
attempt as evidence that the controller or embodiment could not solve the task.
Stopping, feedback, and selection.
The comparison does not assume a common construction
budget. Available campaign records retain search parameters, attempt limits, and selection decisions,
but they do not establish complete human-effort totals for every reference. In the current furniture
campaign, the selected execution is the latest successful trial if one exists, otherwise the latest
complete trial. Earlier reference campaigns used their declared variant ordering and retained a
successful selected execution or the last actual execution when all attempts failed. Subsequent scoring
revisions preserve the selected execution and recompute its scores; they do not select a new winner
from history. Failed builds, physical failures, and planning attempts that never reached execution
remain distinguishable.
Reference success is neither an annotation-acceptance condition nor a guaranteed upper bound.
The main comparison executes each method’s own behavior in its own scene, without transferring
controls between reference and coding-agent scenes. Differences reflect the complete construction
workflows, including privileged information, engineering effort, and any recorded execution-condition
differences.
B.6
Human Evaluation
Evaluation target and stimuli.
We assess overall scene-and-interaction faithfulness through pair-
wise comparisons of the nine coding-agent systems and HAR. Each comparison presents the source
demonstration, denoted R, alongside two reconstructions of the same case, denoted A and B. A case
identifies a source demonstration and target configuration; different embodiments of the same source
video can form distinct cases. Each coding-agent video shows its own generated behavior executing
in its own reconstructed scene. HAR participates as an ordinary candidate, rather than as the source
video or a guaranteed correct answer.
The rating question was: “Which result more faithfully reconstructs the scene and interaction in
the real video?” Raters were instructed to consider objects and layout, task semantics, motion, and
visible physical plausibility. They were also instructed that geometric simplification or a different robot
embodiment does not automatically imply failure, and that visual detail alone should not determine
preference. This question measures holistic faithfulness rather than a separate task-success judgment.
Videos were displayed without audio at 640 × 480 resolution using aspect-preserving resizing and
padding. We retained the complete recorded interaction, including prelude, waiting, and terminal
settling, at its original duration and 1× playback speed. Videos could be played independently
or together; neither camera viewpoints nor trajectory timing were forced to match. A preference
submission required at least 90% playback coverage of each playable video. “Unable to judge/playback
issue” could be submitted without meeting that threshold. All retained preference judgments met the
playback requirement, which checks playback rather than sustained attention.


Video2World
44
Case sampling and comparison coverage.
The study used a frozen pool of 195 cases from 30
task families, preceding the final 222-instance benchmark inventory. We sampled 54 cases using
task-family stratification and seed 20260924. Each family received at least one case; the remaining
slots were allocated by the largest deficit relative to the family’s proportional share of 54, subject to
availability. Cases were then sampled within families using the fixed seed.
We planned two agent–agent comparisons per sampled case, giving 108 comparisons, with each
of the 36 agent-pair types assigned to three cases. We then added three HAR comparisons per agent
across 27 distinct families, retaining the original sampled cases and agent comparisons. Thus, the
complete plan contained 135 case–candidate-pair comparisons, with each of the 45 system-pair types
represented three times. Pair allocation used identifiers, family membership, and assignment counts,
without consulting automatic scores, task-success labels, or human preferences.
Media and provenance checks admitted 83 comparisons from 41 cases: 70 agent–agent and 13
agent–HAR comparisons. The remaining 52 comparisons were deferred, without replacement by
higher-quality or successful examples. Admission required verifiable source correspondence and
complete execution footage, or a confirmed agent-caused build failure represented by an anonymous
failure panel. Missing media or infrastructure failures were deferred rather than treated as candidate
losses. The released comparisons covered 43 of the 45 system-pair types; the effective comparison
graph connected all ten systems, and HAR was compared with every agent. Actual coverage was
therefore less balanced than the planned design. Playable executions were retained regardless of task
success.
Participants, masking, and assignment.
Twelve invited internal raters, comprising paper authors
and company employees, participated voluntarily with informed consent and received no additional
compensation. They were not informed of the specific experimental purpose. Each released compar-
ison was assigned to three distinct raters using a seeded allocation that balanced workload. Nine
raters completed 21 primary comparisons each and three completed 20 each. Raters were instructed
to answer independently.
The interface, media addresses, and personal exports concealed system names, HAR identity,
automatic scores, and other raters’ answers. The organizers retained the identity mapping. A/B
positions were randomized independently for each assignment, and question order was shuffled
within each rater. R remained the fixed source reference; the interface did not prescribe a randomized
playback sequence. Masking candidate labels does not establish that internally recruited raters had
no prior familiarity with the outputs.
Responses and quality checks.
The five responses were A better, B better, equivalent, both poor, and
unable to judge/playback issue. The 83 comparisons yielded 249 primary judgments: 79 A-better, 82
B-better, 14 equivalent, 68 both-poor, and six unable-to-judge responses. The six excluded responses
came from two comparisons for which all three raters selected unable to judge; both candidates in each
comparison were confirmed build failures. The remaining 243 judgments covered 81 comparisons
across 39 cases and 19 task families, with three valid judgments from distinct raters per comparison.
Seven cases contributed three judgments each, 22 contributed six, and ten contributed nine. Raters
could overlap across different comparisons of the same case. Valid preferences covered seven of the
nine source categories in the sampling pool; no Poway or RoboDojo comparison passed admission in
this study.


Video2World
45
Each rater also received one unannounced repeat comparison, separated from its original pre-
sentation by at least eight primary questions and with independently randomized A/B positions.
These 12 repeats were excluded from ratings and confidence intervals. After aligning candidate
identities, repeat-answer consistency was 8/12; no rater was excluded on this basis. Across the 81
valid comparisons, all three raters agreed in preference direction on 31, counting equivalent and
both-poor responses as ties. These are descriptive consistency measures.
Human Preference Rating.
We fit a Bradley–Terry model to all 243 valid judgments, rather than
to majority votes. For judgment 𝑡comparing candidates 𝑖𝑡and 𝑗𝑡, let 𝑦𝑡= 1 when 𝑖𝑡is preferred,
𝑦𝑡= 0 when 𝑗𝑡is preferred, and 𝑦𝑡= 0.5 for either equivalent or both-poor responses. Unable-to-judge
responses are excluded. With 𝑑𝑡= 𝛽𝑖𝑡−𝛽𝑗𝑡, we minimize
L(𝜷) =
∑︁
𝑡
[log(1 + exp(𝑑𝑡)) −𝑦𝑡𝑑𝑡] + 0.001
2
10
∑︁
𝑚=1
𝛽2
𝑚.
(9)
Each valid judgment has unit weight; we do not additionally equalize case or family weights. Equiva-
lent and both-poor responses each contribute half a win and half a loss, while their counts remain
separately reported. Both-poor responses account for 68/243 = 28.0% of valid judgments. No
separate tie-probability parameter is fitted.
We optimize using L-BFGS-B from zero initialization, with ftol=1e-12, gtol=1e-8, and at most
1,000 iterations. After checking convergence, we center the ten fitted parameters and convert them
to the Elo scale:
HPR𝑚= 1000 + 400
ln 10 (𝛽𝑚−¯𝛽),
¯𝛽= 1
10
10
∑︁
𝑚=1
𝛽𝑚.
(10)
The mean Human Preference Rating (HPR) is therefore 1000. HPR is a batch estimate of relative
preference, not an online Elo update or a task-success percentage.
Confidence intervals.
We use 2,000 source-video-cluster bootstrap replicates with seed 20260924.
Clusters are defined by the SHA-256 hash of the original demonstration, keeping all associated
embodiments, comparisons, and raters together. The 41 cases with primary responses form 39 source-
video clusters. Two clusters contain only unable-to-judge responses and remain in the resampling
pool; the 243 valid judgments originate from 37 nonempty clusters. Each replicate samples 39
clusters with replacement, carries their valid judgments with the corresponding multiplicities, and
refits all ten ratings with the same regularization and centering. Sampling an empty cluster adds
no judgments. All 2,000 fits were valid. The 95% intervals in Figure 3(a) are the 2.5th and 97.5th
percentiles of each system’s bootstrap ratings.
Interpretation and scope.
The intervals quantify uncertainty under source-video resampling for this
rater group; raters are not independently resampled. We do not infer significant pairwise differences
from the point-estimate ranking. The study measures relative holistic faithfulness under its observed
case coverage and internal participant pool. HAR uses privileged information and human refinement,
and its videos came from an independently versioned reference release; participation in the same
preference study does not imply matched construction budgets or identical automatic-evaluation
snapshots. Automatic scores do not enter the preference model or determine its outcomes. The
study compares complete reconstruction workflows and complements automatic evaluation with an
assessment of their visible outputs.


Video2World
46
B.7
Annotation Verification and Evaluator Refinement
Verification examines whether the annotations represent the demonstrated interaction and whether
the evaluator recognizes valid executions of that interaction. Source videos, geometric overlays, object
trajectories, and task semantics provide the evidence used to define and adjudicate evaluation
criteria. Reference and agent-generated executions are used only to expose ambiguous or incomplete
predicates; they do not determine the intended task outcome or method-specific scoring rules. Any
identified ambiguity is resolved against the source demonstration and task specification, after which
the revised evaluator is applied uniformly to all submitted methods. A different grasp or transport
path is therefore admissible when it preserves the task-defining events and outcome.
Author review and adjudication.
Authors inspect the source video, annotated object motion, refer-
ence execution, and task predicates together. An accepted annotation can accompany an unsuccessful
HAR execution, and a geometric modeling concern need not invalidate an otherwise successful inter-
action. Accordingly, these counts describe review coverage, not agreement with binary task-success
labels.
Review identified two erroneous success decisions, in bulb insertion and drawer insertion, and
three additional progress disagreements, in cabinet-top and drawer assembly. In these cases, the
scoring criteria were corrected by referring back to the demonstrated interaction and its task-defining
events. Other review notes concern interpenetration, inaccurate geometry, or uncertain endpoints.
Corrections were incorporated into the shared evaluator and the affected submissions were rescored
under the same revised criteria.
All results reported in the paper are computed using the same final evaluation snapshot; no
reported method is scored under a method-specific or earlier predicate version.
Human adjudication of scoring errors.
Saved executions also document two complementary
scoring failures and their corrections. First, an endpoint-only rule accepted a lampshade placement
whose initial state already satisfied the broad goal condition. In the saved 36-execution control study
spanning 12 source clips, the original action sequence and two modified sequences for this instance
all received full success and progress. Requiring departure from the initial goal and a new placement
changed all three judgments to failure, with progress reduced to 0.25; the other 33 judgments were
unchanged. These are erroneous acceptances of an interaction that was not completed.
Second, two Astra bottle reconstructions were rejected despite an upright, released, supported
endpoint. The earlier comparison paired opposite ends of the reference bottle axis and also imposed
proximity to an unnecessary absolute source endpoint. Adjudication instead required the candidate
bottle’s directed axis to point upward, together with support, release, rest, and an actual reorientation.
Both reconstructions then satisfied the revised predicate in a review covering six executions of this
source clip. Figure A5(b) shows the visual-feedback reconstruction. These erroneous rejections concern
task interpretation; geometric discrepancies remain measurable under the separate reconstruction
metrics. The documented cases are examples of evaluator refinement, rather than an estimate of
error prevalence across the benchmark.
Counterexamples and admissible alternatives.
Figure A5 contrasts incomplete extraction with
successful reorientation. In the extraction case, the marker remains partly inside its receiver after the
robot withdraws: only 39.4% of its vertices lie outside the receiver footprint, below the 95% removal


Video2World
47
Demonstrated outcome
Execution: start
Execution: middle
Execution: end
Demonstrated outcome
Execution: start
Execution: middle
Execution: end
(a) Remove the marker from the container and place it on the table
Incomplete removal
39.4% outside the receiver footprint; the criterion requires 95%.
(b) Reorient the bottle and leave it upright on the table
Successful upright placement
Shape CD: 3.58 cm   |   Size error: 5.76 cm
Figure A5. Evaluating the requested interaction separately from geometric fidelity. Each row shows the
demonstrated outcome and three frames from the scored Astra visual-feedback execution, with manually drawn
endpoint outlines identifying the manipulated object. (a) The marker remains partly in the container; robot
withdrawal does not establish object extraction. (b) The bottle is reoriented and placed upright, satisfying the
task predicate despite the reported shape and size errors. Execution frames are 0, 36, and 72 for (a), and 0,
48, and 96 for (b). Judgments use the complete saved rollout; frames are cropped for visibility and are not
temporally aligned with the source endpoint.
criterion. In the reorientation case, the bottle is placed upright, but its Shape CD and Size error remain
3.58 cm and 5.76 cm. Thus, successful interaction and geometric reconstruction accuracy require
separate measurements. A further cup-placement reconstruction satisfies its relative-placement goal
with Scene CD 3.64 cm, Shape CD 3.05 cm, and Size error 6.23 cm.
Counterexamples also test whether the rules reject an already solved initial arrangement without
excluding legitimate alternative solutions. Native solved-start probes require a new object-level
completion, rather than robot return home alone. Conversely, two shortened Push-T executions
retain success because the object reaches the goal before truncation: their position/orientation errors
are 1.09 cm/5.90◦and 2.27 cm/7.80◦, within the 4 cm/15◦tolerance. A modified or shorter action
sequence is therefore evaluated by its physical outcome, not assigned a failure label by construction.
Revision and consistent rescoring.
The recorded revisions address initial-goal shortcuts, object-
specific release and stability, central versus corner leg interfaces, door-axis annotations, and directed
bottle orientation. Container and support rules are defined on the receiver’s free cavity and bearing
surface. A corrected condition applies to every method under the same task contract. Changes
confined to scoring are evaluated on the retained executions; changes to physical execution require
a new rollout. Annotation, evaluator, and execution versions preserve the association between a
reported judgment and the evidence on which it depends.


Video2World
48
C
Evaluation Details
Video2World evaluates geometric fidelity, fidelity of executed object motion, and functional
correctness separately. Geometry describes the initialized reconstruction; motion metrics compare its
physical execution with the demonstration; task metrics assess whether the requested interaction is
completed. These quantities characterize a complete reconstruction, including both its environment
and its robot behavior. Robot trajectories provide execution evidence but are not motion-matching
targets.
For method 𝑚and instance 𝑖, the evaluated reconstruction and rollout are
𝑃𝑚
𝑖= (𝜂𝑚
𝑖, 𝜋𝑚
𝑖),
𝜏𝑚
𝑖= R𝑐𝑚
𝑖(𝜂𝑚
𝑖, 𝜋𝑚
𝑖).
(11)
The record 𝑐𝑚
𝑖identifies the assigned simulator and embodiment and the controller, initialization,
sampling, and settling conditions actually used. The HAR execution settings are specified in Section B.5.
Each method executes its own behavior in its own scene; fixed-reference-action replays, where retained,
are separate diagnostics. Superscript ∗denotes the evaluation annotations described in Section B.3,
including explicitly modeled targets for reconstructed twins. The method superscript is suppressed
below. Metric applicability follows the available annotation and the assigned evaluation profile.
C.1
Geometric Fidelity
Rigid-scene evaluation compares the initialized geometry in the prescribed common frame. Scene
Chamfer Distance measures visible scene correspondence after bounded registration. Object-level
measurements separately retain physical size and initial placement. Distances in the definitions below
are in metres and are reported in centimetres.
Surface extraction and visibility.
Task-relevant entities are associated through the instance’s
semantic roles. Where an object is delivered as several parts, the registered assembly procedure
combines the corresponding physical parts before surface sampling. Supports are distinguished from
manipulated and receiving entities. Mesh surfaces are sampled uniformly by area at 104 points/m2,
with 300–40,000 points per entity and random seed zero. Canonical triangle ordering makes the scene
samples independent of vertex indices, face ordering, and winding. The dense reference surfaces
used as distance targets use 64 times this density and upper sample limit. Candidate samples are
deduplicated into 4 mm voxel centres.
Visibility is determined with the per-instance evaluation camera after the configuration’s coordinate
conversion. Samples lie within a 0.9 m horizontal radius of the robot base, in front of the camera by
more than 5 cm, and within the calibrated image’s valid content rows, excluding letterbox padding.
A rasterized depth buffer removes occluded samples using a 1 cm tolerance plus the depth range
in a 3×3 pixel neighbourhood. The candidate’s identified table is excluded from the depth buffer
used for its object surfaces, so a misplaced support cannot hide those objects from comparison. A
required reference manipulated or receiving entity with no visible samples retains its unoccluded
surface within the workspace. Profiles without a calibrated evaluation camera use the workspace
surface directly.
Interaction weights.
Let E𝑖contain the reference non-support entities with surface samples. A
manipulated object or its designated receiver receives weight two. For another entity 𝑒, let 𝑑ctx
𝑖,𝑒be its


Video2World
49
minimum distance to the demonstrated TCP path and the manipulated object’s swept geometry. Its
weight is
𝑤𝑖,𝑒= clip[0,1]
 
0.25 m −𝑑ctx
𝑖,𝑒
0.20 m
!
.
(12)
Thus, nearby context receives unit weight within 5 cm and zero weight beyond 25 cm. The sweep uses
at most 300 distinct object vertices at regularly spaced source frames, with stride max(1, ⌊𝑇/15⌋) for
a 𝑇-frame trajectory; context entities use at most 1,500 vertices. Vertex subsampling uses seed zero,
and weights are rounded to three decimal places. Nonfinite source TCP observations are excluded.
An entity whose context distance cannot be determined receives unit weight; if no demonstrated
motion is available, all context entities receive unit weight. These weights depend on the evaluation
annotations rather than the candidate.
Interaction-weighted surface distance.
Write S𝑖,𝑒for an entity’s reference samples, B𝑖,𝑒for its
dense surface, and Btab
𝑖
for the dense reference support. Let C𝑖be the candidate non-support voxel
centres and bC𝑖= 𝑔𝑖(C𝑖) their registered positions. With
𝑑(𝑝, Q) = min
𝑞∈Q ∥𝑝−𝑞∥2,
B𝑖= Btab
𝑖
∪
Ø
𝑒
B𝑖,𝑒,
(13)
the forward entity residual is
𝑎𝑖,𝑒= med𝑝∈S𝑖,𝑒𝑑(𝑝, bC𝑖),
𝛿𝑖,𝑒= min{𝑎𝑖,𝑒, 𝑐sc},
𝑐sc = 0.10 m.
(14)
This residual compares each annotated entity with the complete candidate non-support surface.
Semantic correspondence determines roles and assembly membership; it does not impose a separate
binary presence test on this nearest-surface distance. For a candidate point 𝑝, let 𝑒𝑖(𝑝) be the entity
containing its nearest dense reference non-support sample, and set 𝜔𝑖(𝑝) = 𝑤𝑖,𝑒𝑖(𝑝). Scene Chamfer
Distance is
𝑑sc
𝑖=
Í
𝑒𝑤𝑖,𝑒𝛿𝑖,𝑒
Í
𝑒𝑤𝑖,𝑒
+ wmed𝑝∈bC𝑖; 𝜔𝑖min{𝑑(𝑝, B𝑖), 𝑐sc}.
(15)
The weighted median is the first sorted residual whose cumulative weight reaches half the total
weight. If all weights in either term are zero, that term uses its unweighted counterpart. Support is
included as a reverse-distance target, although candidate support samples are scored separately. If
the candidate has no non-support samples, both terms receive the 10 cm cap, giving a 20 cm Scene
CD. Missing measurable reference surfaces constitute an evaluation error.
Bounded registration.
Scene registration uses
𝑔(𝑝) = 𝑠𝑅𝑝+ 𝑡,
𝑠∈[0.95, 1.05],
𝜃(𝑅) ≤15◦,
(16)
with free translation. A deterministic finite search initializes translation from the identity, scene cen-
troids, coordinate-wise medians, bounding-box centres, and available corresponding-entity centroids.
Each initialization undergoes at most 30 similarity iterative closest point (ICP) iterations, retaining
the closest 70% of point correspondences. Scale is bounded at each update; a rotation beyond 15◦
is clamped about its estimated axis and translation is refitted. The two best hypotheses undergo
additional translation-only Powell refinement within ±10 cm of their fitted translations, using at
most 180 objective evaluations and position/objective tolerances 10−5/10−6. The final hypothesis


Video2World
50
minimizes Eq. 15 among the fitted candidates and the identity transform. This finite search does not
assert a global optimum.
Supports do not anchor object registration. Their classification is checked again in the registered
frame, with refitting if the classification changes. Native multi-object scenes additionally use the
declared initial-object anchor to establish their common frame before surface comparison. This
coordinate preparation and the bounded scene fit are recorded separately. The fitted scene transform
is not applied to object-placement or trajectory errors.
Missing geometry, extra geometry, and supports.
With threshold 𝜌= 0.05 m, the coverage
diagnostics are
𝑓miss
𝑖
=
Í
𝑒𝑤𝑖,𝑒1[𝑎𝑖,𝑒> 𝜌]
Í
𝑒𝑤𝑖,𝑒
,
𝑓extra
𝑖
=
Í
𝑝∈bC𝑖1[𝑑(𝑝, B𝑖) > 𝜌]
| bC𝑖|
.
(17)
Missing geometry is therefore a weighted fraction of entities, whereas extra geometry is a fraction
of candidate voxels. The former uses an unweighted mean if all entity weights are zero. Empty
candidate geometry gives missing fraction one and extra fraction zero, with the empty denominator
recorded. An entity classified as missing may have a residual between 5 and 10 cm; its distance
contribution is still the capped measured residual.
Explicit supports and identified table parts are evaluated separately. Otherwise, a candidate part
is table-like when its horizontal span is at least 45 cm, its median distance to the reference table
plane or surface is at most 10 cm, and fewer than half its samples lie within 3 cm of a reference
non-support entity. Declared physical assemblies retain their object role. Table error is the median
distance from the registered candidate support samples to the annotated plane or dense support
surface, capped at 10 cm. A missing candidate support receives this cap; absent reference support
makes the measure inapplicable. For instances with source-annotated partial tabletop boundaries, an
additional image-space diagnostic measures distance to the projected candidate boundary using the
delivered camera and no fitted scene transform. This diagnostic is reported in pixels and retains the
annotation’s visible extent.
Object shape, size, and placement.
For point sets P and P∗, define the untruncated bidirectional
distance
𝐷(P, P∗) = 1
|P|
∑︁
𝑝∈P
𝑑(𝑝, P∗) +
1
|P∗|
∑︁
𝑞∈P∗
𝑑(𝑞, P).
(18)
Shape CD evaluates 𝐷(ℎP, P∗) after rigid alignment without scaling. Each mesh contributes 4,000
area-uniform samples in its local frame, using seed zero. Symmetric ICP starts from the 24 proper
axis-aligned rotations about centred point sets, runs 12 iterations per start, and refines the best three
for 40 further iterations. The smallest bidirectional distance is retained. Sampling in local mesh
frames makes this shape measure independent of the submitted world pose.
Size error is
𝑒size
𝑖
= ∥sort(ℓ𝑖) −sort(ℓ∗
𝑖)∥2,
(19)
where ℓ𝑖and ℓ∗
𝑖are the full edge lengths of independently fitted oriented bounding boxes (OBBs).
Sorting removes axis naming conventions; it does not establish semantic width, depth, and height
correspondences. Centre error compares surface-sample centroids at the initialized poses in the
common frame. Mesh-origin error is retained separately. Where a receiver is specified, the initial
relation 𝑇𝑟→𝑚= 𝑇−1
𝑟
𝑇𝑚provides a further placement diagnostic. Object-coordinate correspondences


Video2World
51
are fixed from the reconstructed and annotated geometry and retained throughout execution; they
are distinct from fitting a trajectory to its target.
C.2
Dynamic Fidelity
Dynamic fidelity measures object motion generated by the submitted behavior in the submitted
environment. It reflects both scene and control quality. Pose, visible-point, and deformable-surface
annotations support different comparisons, as specified below.
Temporal correspondence.
The shared rigid-pose evaluator uses the demonstration timestamps
and each execution’s declared observation clock. For regularly sampled records, the first recorded
state defines time zero; demonstration time 𝑘Δ𝑡∗selects execution index round(𝑘Δ𝑡∗/Δ𝑡), clipped to
the recorded range. Half-index ties use round-to-even. Household pose profiles with timestamped
RGB-D observations instead use linear position interpolation and quaternion SLERP at the source
timestamps; profiles with explicit observation-to-execution indices use those indices. The source time
origin and any initialization offset belong to the profile’s execution record. Observation intervals are
distinct from physics integration timesteps.
No temporal warping is applied to these primary motion scores. For a completed execution shorter
than the demonstration, the scorer extends the last recorded state over the remaining comparison
times. This is an endpoint-hold convention for scoring, not additional simulated motion. The regular
pose profile reports the number of demonstration times beyond the last execution time plus half a
sample interval, and coverage is one minus this count divided by the number of demonstration frames.
Timestamped profiles report coverage on their recorded time interval. Execution states beyond the
demonstration window are excluded from motion comparison but remain available for terminal task
evaluation. Construction failures, incomplete records, and infrastructure errors follow the outcome
rules in Section C.4; an interrupted trace cannot be substituted for a completed execution. Duration-
normalized motion scores, when retained, are explicitly separate diagnostics with the time-scale
factor recorded.
Translation APE.
For object 𝑒, let 𝑝𝑖,𝑒(𝑡) and 𝑝∗
𝑖,𝑒(𝑡) denote executed and demonstrated positions
after temporal correspondence. Each trajectory is translated by its own initial position:
e𝑝𝑖,𝑒(𝑡) = 𝑝𝑖,𝑒(𝑡) −𝑝𝑖,𝑒(0),
e𝑝∗
𝑖,𝑒(𝑡) = 𝑝∗
𝑖,𝑒(𝑡) −𝑝∗
𝑖,𝑒(0).
(20)
Translation absolute pose error (APE) is the capped mean
𝑒𝑝
𝑖,𝑒= 1
|T𝑖|
∑︁
𝑡∈T𝑖
min{∥e𝑝𝑖,𝑒(𝑡) −e𝑝∗
𝑖,𝑒(𝑡)∥2, 𝑐𝑝},
𝑐𝑝= 1 m.
(21)
This preserves motion direction, magnitude, and timing while removing constant initial translation.
No scene-registration rotation or scale is fitted to the trajectories. Raw per-frame errors, the uncapped
90th percentile and maximum, and the proportion supported by execution records accompany the
capped mean. Initial placement remains a separate geometric measurement.
Orientation and symmetry.
Define the rotation distance
𝑑𝑅(𝑅1, 𝑅2) = arccos

clip[−1,1]
tr(𝑅⊤
1 𝑅2) −1
2

.
(22)


Video2World
52
For the declared symmetry group H𝑖,𝑒, rotation APE is
𝑒𝑅
𝑖,𝑒= 1
|T𝑖|
∑︁
𝑡∈T𝑖
min
𝑄∈H𝑖,𝑒
𝑑𝑅(𝑅𝑖,𝑒(𝑡), 𝑅∗
𝑖,𝑒(𝑡)𝑄).
(23)
Asymmetric objects use the identity; declared cube symmetry enumerates 24 proper rotations.
Continuous axial symmetry compares the corresponding directed axes, removing spin about the axis.
Registered bottle axes distinguish a resolved neck direction from geometrically indistinguishable
ends: their angular errors are respectively arccos(𝑎⊤𝑎∗) and arccos |𝑎⊤𝑎∗|, with dot products clipped
to their admissible range. Orientations are expressed in corresponding object frames without initial-
orientation subtraction. Angular results are reported in degrees. Incomplete orientation observations
use the separate measures below.
Translation RPE.
Translation relative pose error (RPE) measures displacement increments in the
common fixed coordinate axes. For each start time 𝑡𝑘, choose the subsequent recorded comparison
time 𝑡𝑗nearest to 𝑡𝑘+ 0.2 s, breaking ties toward the earlier time. Starts whose requested endpoint
exceeds the comparison window are excluded. With P𝑖denoting the resulting pairs,
𝑟𝑝
𝑖,𝑒=
1
|P𝑖|
∑︁
(𝑘,𝑗)∈P𝑖
min

∥[𝑝𝑖,𝑒(𝑡𝑗) −𝑝𝑖,𝑒(𝑡𝑘)] −[𝑝∗
𝑖,𝑒(𝑡𝑗) −𝑝∗
𝑖,𝑒(𝑡𝑘)]∥2, 𝑐𝑝
	
.
(24)
Actual intervals are recorded to expose discretization of the 0.2 s target. Where a source-validity
mask applies, every frame in the interval must be valid. A sequence too short for the interval has
no RPE value. This translation measure is independent of the choice of object orientation axes.
A supplementary rotation RPE compares 𝑅(𝑡𝑘)⊤𝑅(𝑡𝑗) with its demonstrated counterpart using the
declared symmetry-aware angular distance. It applies symmetry independently to each interval and
does not perform a sequence-wide selection of continuous pose representatives.
Deformable and partially observed motion.
Rope and soft-toy trajectories are compared as point
sets in their frozen reference frame. At each source timestamp, the nearest actual execution state
is selected, with earlier-state tie breaking and endpoint holding outside the recorded interval; any
declared initialization prefix is removed from the execution time origin. Their trajectory error is
𝑒surf
𝑖
= 1
|T𝑖|
∑︁
𝑡∈T𝑖
𝐷(P𝑖(𝑡), P∗
𝑖(𝑡)),
(25)
using Eq. 18 without rigid fitting, initial-centroid subtraction, or per-frame recentering. The repre-
sentation uses the retained executed object surface samples and annotated particles; node-centreline
distance is an additional rope endpoint diagnostic. These distances are untruncated, and recording
coverage is reported. Initial and terminal surface errors use the same distance, while their size
diagnostic uses sorted full world-axis bounding-box extents, distinct from rigid-object OBB size.
Cloth is compared on visible surfaces: simulated geometry is filtered by the source cameras and
robot/self-occlusion conditions and voxelized like the observed surface. The surface trajectory uses
Eq. 25. A separate centroid trajectory uses the translation APE/RPE definitions above, rebased at its
initial visible-surface centroid. No rigid orientation error is assigned to cloth. Articulated objects use
the registered task-relevant parts and relations; a universal joint-angle tracking score is not assumed
for annotations lacking joint correspondences.


Video2World
53
Household point and axis observations.
The point-observation profiles compare the physical
target surface along fixed source observation rays. The evaluator intersects those rays with the moving
candidate object, retains depths between 0.2 and 2.5 m, and removes depth outliers beyond the
larger of 15 mm and 3×1.4826 median absolute deviations. A frame requires at least 40 surviving
intersections. The coordinate-wise median defines its observed point, and the surviving-ray fraction
is 𝜌𝑡. For raw position error 𝑑𝑡, the scored error is
ℓ𝑡= 𝜌𝑡min{𝑑𝑡, 0.10 m} + (1 −𝜌𝑡) 0.10 m.
(26)
An unavailable point receives 10 cm, and the mean uses the complete source timeline. Displacement
error uses a four-frame interval and the minimum coverage over its five frames, with the same cap
and missing-observation penalty. These observation-based distances do not perform spatial trajectory
fitting or candidate-dependent masking.
For source annotations supporting only geometric directions, long-axis or normal error is the
unsigned axis angle. When a full geometric triad is observable, frame error minimizes angular
distance over its four proper sign choices, without axis permutation. Source-validity masks are fixed
from the observations; source and prediction coverage accompany the errors. Candidate frames are
interpolated with SLERP at source timestamp offsets and held at endpoints outside the execution
interval. These measures describe observable geometry and are reported separately from semantic
full-orientation APE.
Within-instance object aggregation.
The evaluation profile fixes the task-relevant object set. Single-
object profiles report the manipulated object’s motion. RoboDojo averages the per-object metrics
equally over its named rigid task objects, excluding unlabeled clutter; its scene score additionally
averages the specified interaction-role comparisons. Per-object values remain available, and averages
of object-wise maxima or percentiles are identified as such. A missing required comparison is not
silently removed from the object set. A defined missing-object penalty is applied where specified;
otherwise the metric remains unresolved until the required evidence is available.
C.3
Functional Correctness
Functional evaluation checks the interaction defined by the source clip rather than prescribing the
demonstrator’s exact motion. Its conditions concern the initial object relations, essential events and
their ordering, and the terminal goal under the assigned execution checks.
Task success.
For a completed, evaluable rollout 𝜏𝑖= (𝑥0, 𝑢0, . . . , 𝑥𝐻), let 𝛼𝑖denote admissible initial
conditions, 𝛽𝑖the required interaction events, and 𝜓𝑖the terminal relation, including its required
persistence. With 𝑣𝑖indicating passage of the profile’s applicable execution-validity checks,
𝜑𝑖(𝜏𝑖) = 𝑣𝑖𝛼𝑖(𝑥0) 𝛽𝑖(𝜏𝑖) 𝜓𝑖(𝜏𝑖),
𝑠𝑖=
(
𝜑𝑖(𝜏𝑖),
𝑏𝑖= 1,
0,
𝑏𝑖= 0,
(27)
where 𝑏𝑖is Build success. The rollout argument of 𝜓𝑖accommodates stability windows and native
task state machines in addition to a final pose. A factor with no additional requirement is one. In the
shared rigid placement profile, a reconstruction initially satisfying its goal must leave that relation and
complete a new placement within the same attempt; initial satisfaction alone neither earns success
nor necessarily violates 𝛼𝑖. An initially held clip need not demonstrate a preceding pickup.


Video2World
54
These factors are a semantic decomposition of the task conditions, not a claim that every backend
exposes identical event detectors. Release, support, holding, and stability use the configuration-specific
evidence below. Missing essential evidence cannot certify success. The scope of 𝑣𝑖is the assigned
checks: for example, RoboDojo validates recorded execution and native mechanism constraints
without certifying every contact or collision. Infrastructure and record-integrity errors remain
unresolved evaluation outcomes rather than being relabeled as method failures.
Progress for rigid manipulation.
The shared rigid evaluator defines an ordered sequence of 𝐾𝑖
stages ending in completion. Grasp and release events delimit manipulation attempts; initially held
tasks begin with a held-state stage. Let ℎ𝑖,𝑎be the longest ordered prefix of intermediate stages
attained within attempt 𝑎. For this profile,
𝑞𝑖=


0,
confirmed build failure or profile-invalid execution,
1,
𝑠𝑖= 1,
max({0} ∪{ℎ𝑖,𝑎}𝑎)
𝐾𝑖
,
otherwise, for an evaluable rollout.
(28)
Success establishes completion even if an intermediate detector did not fire. For unsuccessful
executions, evidence cannot be joined across separate attempts; ties in prefix length select the later
attempt. A rejected initially solved endpoint can retain credit for observed intermediate stages.
Invalidity gates may instead set progress to zero, as in the hand profiles.
Lifting uses acquisition or initial holding, lift, and terminal elevated completion. Placement and
insertion use acquisition or initial holding, transport or approach, release when required, and terminal
placement or seating. Default intermediate thresholds are 1 cm displacement, 10 cm proximity to a
specified horizontal goal, and lift by min(3 cm, ℎ𝑖/2) for task lift threshold ℎ𝑖. Persistence defaults to
a single observation unless overridden by the instance. Planar pushing uses 2 cm object movement,
proximity within twice the goal radius, and completion. These are diagnostic progress thresholds,
distinct from the success tolerances below. The insertion profile’s coarse approach/release stages do
not separately measure alignment, insertion depth, or screw rotation.
Native and deformable progress.
RoboDojo retains the task’s native graded stage score, taking its
maximum over execution and dividing by 100; tasks without a graded score use their binary outcome.
For example, a released two-block stack earns 0.15 in the corresponding stacking profile. Robot
return home and the final arrangement can remain additional success requirements, so full native
progress is not a universal certificate of Task Success. An initially solved arrangement without a new
completion receives zero progress. Household profiles use their declared contact, carry/lift, release,
and supported or retained-hold stages, with the initial-holding exception and task-specific persistence
conditions.
Rope and soft-toy progress is the prefix of three indicators: movement, proximity to the channel
or lifting, and terminal success. Movement requires 2 cm for rope and 5 cm for the toy; the second
indicator requires a rope node within 5 cm of the channel centre or toy-centroid elevation by 5 cm.
The first two indicators search the recorded trajectory and do not independently enforce temporal
precedence. Cloth uses capture, a 3 cm lift while held, subsequent release, and the folding predicate;
terminal success receives full progress. Thus, stage definitions and weighting belong to the task
profile rather than a single universal equal-stage formula.


Video2World
55
Terminal position and orientation.
Endpoint diagnostics use the final executed state, including
the prescribed terminal settling, independently of the demonstration-clock window. If the task names
a receiver, the candidate relation 𝑇−1
𝑟
𝑇𝑚is compared with the annotated terminal relation. Otherwise,
region-based tasks use the difference between candidate and demonstrated displacements from
their respective initial positions. Translation error is capped at 100 cm. A verified missing candidate
receiver receives this penalty; an unresolved receiver pose is an evaluation error. Tasks without a
declared terminal-position anchor have no such metric.
Terminal rotation uses corresponding object orientations or registered axes with the symmetry
treatment above. Receiver-relative rotation remains a separate diagnostic where that relation is defined.
The reported terminal-orientation measure also supports tasks with no receiver-relative rotational
target, including upright-bottle reorientation; these angular quantities are not interchangeable. A
declared missing candidate object receives a 180◦terminal-rotation penalty where the reference
orientation is evaluable. Native multi-object endpoint measures retain their per-object relations and
equal-weight aggregation. None of these endpoint errors replaces the complete success predicate.
C.3.1
Task Conditions and Tolerances
The following conditions instantiate the initial-state, event, terminal-state, and physical-validity
factors above. Shared requirements are stated once; source-specific values apply to the named
configurations. Release is required only when it is part of the annotated interaction. Human-video
clips may end while an object remains held.
Initial relations and completion events.
The initial relation is evaluated before the first action.
An initially held clip requires the subsequent interaction without an unobserved pickup. For shared
rigid placement and the specified native tasks, an initially satisfied goal requires execution to leave
that relation and complete a new placement within the same attempt, including required release
and stability conditions. This transition belongs to 𝛽𝑖; initial geometric satisfaction alone neither
establishes success nor necessarily violates 𝛼𝑖. Object–receiver relations use simultaneous poses when
the receiver moves. Partial insertion may continue from its observed initial state, whereas a fully
contained start must first exit before receiving credit for a new insertion.
Lifting and retained holding.
Lifting requires upward displacement from the annotated initial
support relation. DexYCB uses a rise of at least 10 cm and terminal rest, together with the arm-
or hand-specific physical checks. Its current height/rest condition does not independently certify
sustained terminal holding. RoboDojo pickup also requires at least 10 cm elevation. Household pickup
and holding instead use the instance’s required elevation or displacement and retained terminal
hold, supported by sustained contact or the specified fingertip-distance/relative-motion proxy. Wallet
proximity is such a proxy, rather than a force measurement.
Supported, directional, and upright placement.
Placement requires the transfer and the desig-
nated receiving relation, followed by object-specific release and rest where specified. DROID support
is evaluated on the actual bearing surface, with a 1 cm contact tolerance and a 5 mm footprint margin;
receiver rim height alone does not establish support. Directional placement requires at least 3 cm of
horizontal progress in the demonstrated direction. Side-placement uses the declared receiver-relative
relation without imposing an unrelated absolute endpoint. Upright-bottle placement requires the
resolved axis to lie within 30◦of the support normal; a directed neck points upward, while an


Video2World
56
unsigned axis is permitted only for geometrically indistinguishable ends. HOI4D placement uses
the instance’s goal region, orientation, and support-height conditions. HOT3D and OakInk2 use the
annotated region, tray, or container relation, retaining any allowed held endpoint. For human-video
configurations, the assigned arm or hand validity checks also apply.
Containment and extraction.
DROID container placement requires at least 5% of 3,000 determin-
istic object-surface samples to occupy free cavity space at least 2 mm below the receiver rim, together
with required release and rest. Vessel material and handle holes are excluded, and task-required lid
geometry is retained. Long objects may protrude: this rule is not full containment. Removal to a
support requires a supported final state with at least 95% of the object vertices outside the original
container’s horizontal footprint, followed by release and rest. Household initially held insertion
requires outside-to-inside evidence, cavity containment, and a released stable endpoint. Air-fryer
basket extraction requires the entire inner basket to clear the opening and rest after release; partial
withdrawal fails.
Furniture placement and assembly.
Lampshade placement distinguishes capping a lamp from
setting the shade aside. Capping checks that the lamp top lies inside the hood. Set-aside checks support,
separation, and the annotated upright or lying condition. Both require the relevant completion
transition, release, and rest. General part seating, including bulb placement, uses a relative translation
tolerance of 3 cm and orientation tolerance of 30◦, with the declared symmetry. Corner-leg insertion
additionally requires the demonstrated corner, tilt within 30◦, distance within 7 cm of that corner,
and a foot height from 5 cm below to 1.5 cm above the receiver top. Central pedestals use the
annotated centre and its specified lateral tolerance. Drawer seating checks tilt, footprint, vertical
extent, and height within 3 cm of the demonstrated slot for a multi-slot receiver. Door assembly uses
the demonstrated axis, normalized location on the receiving body, and interface proximity. These tests
use the candidate receiver geometry and the executor’s recorded retention convention. Geometric
seating does not certify screw engagement, a newly formed hinge, or load-bearing strength.
Multi-object arrangements and stacks.
RoboDojo conditions retain task-specific logical combi-
nations and require robot return home where specified. All designated objects must attain their
semantic assignments, and an initially solved arrangement must leave the object-level goal and
be completed again; robot motion alone is insufficient. Block stacking uses a horizontal tolerance
of 1.5–2 cm, according to the task, and language-conditioned variants preserve the named order.
Bowl stacking uses 4 cm horizontal tolerance, all bowls upright within 45◦, and the base within
7◦. Tower construction checks the prescribed base, middle, and top arrangement and orientations.
Digit arrangement requires descending order on the designated mats, proximity within 2 cm, and
digit-specific orientation within 45◦. Category sorting requires the assigned objects to lie in their
category baskets below the rim; size sorting requires the prescribed doll order with a lateral spread
bound of 3.5 cm. These spatial tests do not measure inter-object support force, and intermediate
reward thresholds are not substituted for success conditions.
Insertion, exchange, and ordered cover operations.
RoboDojo tube insertion requires all three
tubes to reach 4.5 cm insertion depth with their axes within 30◦; charger insertion requires 1.5 cm
and 10◦. Both retain the robot-home requirement and the initially-solved transition guard. Exchange
targets are fixed from the two T-shaped objects’ initial states; the swapped positions must be within


Video2World
57
2 cm and orientations within 3◦, followed by robot return home. Cover-and-uncover requires covering
left, middle, then right, followed by uncovering red, green, then blue. All six stages and robot return
home are required. Cups must be inverted within 10◦, and displacement of a protected block by 5 cm
triggers failure. The recorded event sequence is necessary to establish this task; a terminal image
cannot do so.
Planar pushing, rope routing, and soft-toy packing.
Planar pushing requires the T-shaped body’s
centre within 4 cm of the goal and its planar axis within 15◦, with terminal rest. Gripper release is
inapplicable; an initially satisfied goal still requires a new completion. Rope and soft-toy tasks require
the terminal predicate to be false initially. Rope routing requires a connected rope path to cross
both physical channel faces for at least 0.5 s, with colliding channel geometry and the robot/gripper
checks below. Connectivity does not measure retention force. Soft-toy packing requires at least 85%
of surface points to project inside the cavity using the 1.05 lateral factor, the centroid between floor
and rim, and persistence for 0.5 s. Among surface points within that expanded horizontal footprint,
none may lie more than 2 mm below the physical floor. This containment predicate does not certify
the entire object against floor penetration.
Cloth folding.
The initial visible surface must not already satisfy the target; execution must produce
the required surface and footprint change. The median distance from observed to simulated surface
points must be at most 3 cm, and the footprint-change ratio must be within ±25% of the observed
change. Evaluation uses camera-visible surfaces and their validity masks. These conditions do not
independently establish flatness, crease quality, or absence of crumpling.
Physical validity and evidence scope.
All conditions consume actual execution records under the
robot-actuation and passive-object restrictions of Section A.3. Bimanual-hand checks allow robot
penetration at most 6 mm, initialization object displacement at most 15 mm, nonadjacent self-overlap
diameter at most 4 mm, and finger-joint limit excess at most 0.001 rad. Joint-speed exceedances
are retained as diagnostics. MuJoCo execution preserves the supplied articulated-gripper mechanics
and rejects coupling residuals above 0.001 rad. Native configurations apply the checks exposed by
their assigned executors. RoboDojo records execution integrity and mechanism constraints without a
complete contact/collision validity certificate; the source-specific task evidence above determines
release, holding, support, and containment. Applicable validity failures preclude task success. A
completed simulator process alone does not establish physical validity. The geometry-based proxies
identified above should be interpreted within their stated scope.
A grasp event alone does not establish sustained force closure, and coarse transport or release
stages do not establish fine insertion or screw rotation. Release, stability, containment, and physical
validity therefore contribute distinct evidence to the task decision. An admissible execution can
complete a task in a geometrically inaccurate scene, while a favorable endpoint can fail because a
required event or validity condition is absent.
C.4
Aggregation and Reporting
Evaluation population.
The main evaluation uses a fixed set of 222 reconstruction instances across
39 task families for all coding-agent methods and HAR. All instances have applicable task specifications
and contribute to Build Rate, Task Success, and Task Progress. Confirmed build failures receive zero
for these three metrics. Repeated construction or evaluator-repair runs do not create additional


Video2World
58
test instances: each reported result uses the selected frozen package and its resolved execution
record. Applicability of individual geometric and motion metrics depends on the available reference
annotations, with coverage reported separately.
Family macro-averages.
For metric 𝜇, let I𝑓,𝜇contain the instances in semantic family 𝑓for which
the reference annotation supports that metric. For Build Rate, this is the full family manifest. Let F𝜇
be the families with nonempty I𝑓,𝜇. For 𝑧𝑖∈{𝑏𝑖, 𝑠𝑖, 𝑞𝑖}, the reported percentage is
𝑧= 100
|F𝜇|
∑︁
𝑓∈F𝜇
1
|I𝑓,𝜇|
∑︁
𝑖∈I𝑓,𝜇
𝑧𝑖.
(29)
Task Progress is thus averaged over the same task-applicable population as Task Success, with build
failures retained. Its per-instance range is [0, 1], converted to percent for reporting.
Continuous errors condition on successful builds and applicable reference measurements. Let
J𝑓,𝜇⊆I𝑓,𝜇be that eligible subset after evaluation records have been resolved, and let F +
𝜇= { 𝑓:
|J𝑓,𝜇| > 0}. The continuous-error macro-average is
𝑒𝜇=
1
|F +
𝜇|
∑︁
𝑓∈F+
𝜇
1
|J𝑓,𝜇|
∑︁
𝑖∈J𝑓,𝜇
𝑒𝑖,𝜇.
(30)
A family with no eligible continuous comparison has an unavailable family mean and is omitted
from this conditional macro-average. Consequently, the continuous-error population can differ across
methods. Each such aggregate is accompanied by its eligible instance and family counts and coverage
relative to the applicable manifest; comparative analyses identify the jointly evaluable subset. If no
family is eligible, the aggregate is unavailable. Explicit metric penalties, including those for missing
candidate geometry, remain numerical observations in these averages.
Failure and missing-data policy.
Structural inapplicability, reconstruction failure, and unresolved
evaluation are separate outcomes. An inapplicable metric is not replaced by zero. A confirmed build
failure contributes zero to Build, Success, and Progress wherever each is applicable. A completed
execution that fails the task remains evaluable for continuous measurements. Missing required
outputs, incompatible evaluation revisions, and simulator or dependency failures attributable to
infrastructure must be resolved before reporting; they are not grounds for dropping an otherwise
eligible comparison. The retained evaluation record distinguishes these cases and binds the submission,
annotations, evaluator version, and execution settings.
Uncertainty estimates.
The reported HAR confidence intervals use 10,000 source-cluster bootstrap
replicates, random seed 20260923, and the 2.5th and 97.5th percentiles. A source cluster retains all
target configurations of a source clip together; FurnitureBench clips from the same original episode are
also clustered together, and RoboDojo uses the source demonstration record. For each metric, clusters
are stratified by their set of eligible semantic families. Clusters are sampled with replacement within
these strata, and all eligible instances in a sampled cluster receive the same bootstrap multiplicity.
Each replicate recomputes the equal-family macro-average in Eqs. 29–30.
These are pointwise intervals over the observed source population, not estimates of repeated-run
variability on a fixed instance. Single-method intervals do not constitute a paired test of method
differences. Source-, simulator-, and embodiment-specific breakdowns retain the same metrics


Video2World
59
definitions and report their sample counts. Geometric fidelity, executed-motion fidelity, and functional
correctness are reported separately as component metrics; V2WScore provides an additional aggregate
summary as defined in Section C.7.
C.5
Feasibility Verification and Evaluation Denominators
Attribution of reference failures.
HAR passes 113 of the 222 instances (50.9% per instance;
57.3% macro-averaged over families). Table A11 attributes the 109 failures to four categories using
the evaluator’s recorded verdicts; every criterion is machine-checkable from the retained execution
records. A1 denotes rejection by the physical-validity gate; A2 denotes task families in which no
method, including HAR, produced a passing execution; B denotes executions that satisfy all geometric
predicates but fail only the released/quiescent check, or miss a predicate by at most 1.5× its tolerance;
C denotes physically valid failures in families with at least one passing execution.
Table A11. Attribution of human-assisted reference outcomes on the 222-instance inventory.
Category
Criterion
Count
Share
HAR pass
—
113
50.9%
A1 Physical-validity rejection
valid=false
19
8.6%
A2 No passing execution in family
family HAR 0/𝑛
18
8.1%
B Near miss
margin ≤1.5× tolerance
7
3.2%
C Controller failure
valid, family has passes
65
29.3%
A1: embodiment-configuration failures.
All 19 A1 instances use the dexterous-hand configuration
(hot3d-bimanual 7, hoi4d-bimanual 5, dexycb-bimanual 3, oakink-bimanual 3, hot3d-arm 1). The
violations are joint-position limit (12), object displacement above 1.5 cm during approach (8), and
robot self-penetration (1). Two observations indicate a configuration defect rather than task infeasi-
bility. First, the gate rejects none of the 113 passing reference executions. Second, the same source
videos succeed under the single-arm configuration while failing under the bimanual one (hoi4d 33%
vs. 0/9, hot3d 71% vs. 0/7). We therefore mark these instances configuration-invalid and exclude
them from the primary set. Repairing the hand configuration and re-running both the reference and
the agents on these instances is left to future work.
A2: unverified feasibility.
Eighteen instances have no passing execution by any method: cabinet-
door 0/5, drawer-insert 0/5, hoi4d-bimanual 0/4, toy-pack 0/2, chair-back 0/1, poway-provider-box
0/1, spanning articulated insertion and deformable manipulation. They are retained in the primary
set, since their inclusion affects all methods equally, but are flagged; conclusions about these families
are conditional on feasibility.
B: near misses.
Seven instances (leg-insert 5, hood-place 1, hoi4d-arm 1) fail a single predicate
within 1.5× of its tolerance. We do not relax tolerances post hoc; these instances remain in all
denominators.
C: controller failures.
The remaining 65 failures are physically valid executions in families where
HAR passes elsewhere. Their Task Progress has median 0.25 and mean 0.31; 25 of them record


Video2World
60
zero progress. Even with source geometry, motion annotations, and manual refinement, completing
the first milestone is therefore not guaranteed, which locates a substantial share of the benchmark’s
difficulty in executable behavior rather than scene recovery.
Evaluation denominators.
Table A12 reports per-instance Task Success on three denominators:
S0, all 215 agent-evaluated instances; S2, the primary set after removing A1 and A2 (179); and
S1, the HAR-passing subset (112). Category B is not removed from any denominator. The three
highest-ranked systems are the same on every denominator. Differences among the remaining systems
amount to one or two instances and lie within bootstrap uncertainty, so their relative order should not
be read from any single denominator. The largest shift is Fable-5.1 (+1.5 pp from S0 to S2, +5.1 pp
to S1), consistent with the excluded instances being concentrated in families where it had partial
progress.
Table A12. Task Success (%, per-instance) under three evaluation denominators. S2 is the primary set used in
Table ??.
Method
S0 all (215)
S2 primary (179)
S1 HAR-pass (112)
Human-assisted Ref
52.1
71.6
100.0
Fable-5.1
19.1
20.6
24.2
Claude Opus 5
12.1
11.7
14.1
GPT-6 Astra
8.1
9.8
9.7
Kimi K3
3.6
4.2
3.7
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
3.0
2.3
2.4
GPT-5.6 Sol
1.8
1.6
1.3
Gemini 3.8 Flash
1.5
1.8
2.8
GLM-5.3 Flash
1.4
1.7
1.2
Qwen3.8 Max
1.1
1.4
2.1
C.6
Supplementary Effector-Motion Analysis
Scope and paired observations.
We supplement object-centric dynamics evaluation with a com-
parison of source effector motion and the motion of the robot executing the simulated interaction.
We use the 40 reference instances satisfying the task-success criterion in the original evaluation: 16
DROID, 13 DexYCB, 5 HOT3D, 3 HOI4D, and 3 OakInk2 instances. These comprise 35 unique videos;
four DexYCB videos and one OakInk2 video contribute both arm and bimanual executions. Each
video–embodiment pair is one observation. Selection is fixed by the original evaluation and does not
depend on effector-motion agreement.
On DROID, both sides use gripper tool-center-point (TCP) poses. On human-video sources, we
compare the annotated primary-hand wrist with the corresponding simulated robot hand root: the
Panda hand frame for arm executions and the primary Wuji palm root for bimanual executions.
The latter is the hand-root frame used as the counterpart of the human wrist in the retargeting
convention, rather than a fingertip center. For the OakInk2 bimanual instance, we apply the inverse
of the independently fixed MANO-to-Wuji wrist transform to the simulated palm pose. No transform
is fitted to improve the present agreement results. All trajectories are expressed in the shared metric,
gravity-aligned scene frame.


Video2World
61
These human-to-robot comparisons characterize coarse effector motion across embodiments.
They do not assume identical anatomy or establish agreement of all arm joints or finger articulation.
Human sources have annotated hand motion, not measured robot-arm trajectories. The simulated
runs are human-assisted references whose actions use source information; the analysis describes
motion preservation in reference execution rather than autonomous behavior recovery or downstream
policy-training gains.
Recorded execution and comparison windows.
For DROID, real TCP poses are sampled at 7.5 Hz.
We replay the 16 originally successful references to log actual TCP poses and elapsed control-step time
at 30 Hz, including additional grasp-closure waits. These are actual link poses, not commanded targets.
The replay window starts after reset and initial settling and ends at the last action, excluding additional
terminal settling. The original success labels define the subset; task success is not re-evaluated for
these logging replays.
For the 24 human-source instances, actual robot hand-root poses are taken from the selected
reference executions. Twenty-one have archived pose logs with simulation timestamps; the remaining
three have execution records with a verified fixed 30 Hz clock and no adaptive waiting. The archived
action-row poses agree exactly with the corresponding selected execution logs. We exclude prelude
and terminal-settling phases. Source wrist annotations use their recorded timestamps, or their
documented sampling rate when timestamps are absent: 15 Hz for HOI4D and 30 Hz for the other
human sources.
We restrict each human-source comparison to the interval between the first and last valid source
wrist observations and crop the simulation at the corresponding action-row times. Six DexYCB
instances have three to five unobserved leading frames; these frames are removed from both sides,
rather than treated as measured stationary motion. There are no missing wrist observations inside
the retained intervals. Neither trajectory is rescaled in time or fitted spatially to the other.
Preprocessing and motion interval.
Positions are linearly interpolated and orientations interpo-
lated by SLERP on a 30 Hz grid. Translational velocity is estimated using a nine-sample, second-order
Savitzky–Golay derivative. Let 𝑝𝑘, 𝑅𝑘, and 𝑣𝑘denote position, orientation, and estimated velocity at
𝑡𝑘. Motion onset 𝑘on is the first sample of six consecutive samples satisfying ∥𝑝𝑘−𝑝0∥2 > 0.01 m. The
end index 𝑘end is the start of the final run of at least nine samples with speed below 0.01 m/s through
the recording boundary, beginning no earlier than onset. If this terminal run is absent, we use the
last sample.
The interval is determined separately for each trajectory. Terminal quiescence is unobserved in 39
of the 40 source trajectories and all 40 simulated trajectories; these cases remain included. Motion
duration therefore denotes the observed interval within the recording, including intervening pauses,
and does not necessarily measure time to a complete stop. Human-source reference executions also
follow the source action cadence, so temporal correspondence should be interpreted in that context.


Video2World
62
Motion statistics.
We compute the following features separately for source and simulated effector
motion, with 𝑧denoting the vertical coordinate:
Motion duration (s) = 𝑡𝑘end −𝑡𝑘on,
(31)
Path length (cm) = 100
𝑘end−1
∑︁
𝑘=𝑘on
∥𝑝𝑘+1 −𝑝𝑘∥2,
(32)
Peak speed (cm/s) = 100 max
𝑘
∥𝑣𝑘∥2,
(33)
Lift height (cm) = 100

max
𝑘
𝑝𝑘,𝑧−𝑝0,𝑧

,
(34)
Net displacement (cm) = 100∥𝑝𝑘end −𝑝0∥2,
(35)
Net rotation (◦) = 180
𝜋
arccos
"
clip
 
tr(𝑅T
0 𝑅𝑘end) −1
2
, −1, 1
!#
.
(36)
Peak speed and lift height use the full retained interval. Path length uses onset to end; net displacement
and net rotation use the initial retained pose as their reference. Lift height can be zero when the effector
starts above the subsequent interaction. Net rotation is the full SO(3) initial-to-end angle, without
object-symmetry reduction; it is not accumulated rotation or framewise orientation error. These six
summaries measure selected motion characteristics rather than complete trajectory equivalence.
Paired visualization.
All six features have 40 valid pairs. Figure 5(a) plots paired source and
simulated measurements with common axis scales, an equality line, and Spearman correlation pooled
over all instances. Panel (b) shows (𝑦𝑖−𝑥𝑖)/𝑠𝑥, where 𝑥𝑖and 𝑦𝑖are source and simulated values and
𝑠𝑥is the sample standard deviation of the 40 source values. Boxes show medians and interquartile
ranges; whiskers extend to observations within 1.5 interquartile ranges. The shaded ±0.25 SD band
is a visual reference. Arrows count points outside the displayed [−1.5, 1.5] SD range; these points
remain included in every summary. The right column reports median𝑖|𝑦𝑖−𝑥𝑖| in the original units.
C.7
V2WScore
V2WScore summarizes functional correctness, geometric fidelity, and executed-motion fidelity,
with successful scene construction as a prerequisite. Build acts as a multiplicative gate, rather than a
fourth equally weighted component. All normalization parameters and metric applicability rules are
shared across methods, including HAR; a method’s score does not depend on the outputs or ranking
of other methods.
Per-instance normalization.
For a nonnegative error 𝑒𝑖,𝑘of instance 𝑖under metric 𝑘, define its
quality as
ℎ𝑘(𝑒𝑖,𝑘) = max

0, 1 −𝑒𝑖,𝑘
𝜆𝑘

.
(37)
Zero error receives quality one; errors at or above 𝜆𝑘receive zero. These physical-unit scales were
introduced after the initial reference runs and are shared across methods. They are scoring parameters,
distinct from task-success thresholds. Normalization is performed on each instance before averaging:
applying Eq. 37 to a reported column mean generally gives a different result because of clipping and
metric-specific coverage.


Video2World
63
Component metrics and scales.
Geometry uses Scene CD, object Shape CD, and size error, each with
𝜆𝑘= 10 cm. Where the annotation supports deformable geometry, visible-scene surface distance, initial-
object surface distance, and world-axis-aligned bounding-box size error replace the corresponding
rigid measurements, using the same scales. The replacement follows the reference annotation and
avoids counting both representations of the same geometric quantity.
Dynamics uses translation APE, rotation APE, and translation RPE from the method’s own physical
execution, with scales of 20 cm, 90◦, and 10 cm, respectively. Deformable trajectory surface distance
uses 20 cm. For partial observations, point-position and point-displacement errors use 20 cm and
10 cm; observable long-axis, surface-normal, and symmetry-aware frame errors each use 90◦. Only
annotation-supported measurements enter the score, retaining their definitions in Section C.2. When
applicable, centroid-motion and deformable-surface errors both contribute because they measure
different aspects of motion.
Component weighting and family aggregation.
Let K𝐺
𝑖and K 𝐷
𝑖be the nonempty sets of applicable
geometry and dynamics metrics. For a successfully built reconstruction, let 𝑠𝑖∈{0, 1} be Task Success
and 𝑞𝑖∈[0, 1] be Task Progress. Define
𝐹𝑖= 𝑠𝑖+ 𝑞𝑖
2
,
𝐺𝑖=
1
|K𝐺
𝑖|
∑︁
𝑘∈K𝐺
𝑖
ℎ𝑘(𝑒𝑖,𝑘),
𝐷𝑖=
1
|K 𝐷
𝑖|
∑︁
𝑘∈K 𝐷
𝑖
ℎ𝑘(𝑒𝑖,𝑘).
(38)
Functionality weights success and progress equally; geometry and dynamics each average their
applicable normalized measurements. With Build indicator 𝑏𝑖, the instance score is
𝑧𝑖=
(
(𝐹𝑖+ 𝐺𝑖+ 𝐷𝑖)/3,
𝑏𝑖= 1,
0,
𝑏𝑖= 0,
V2WScore = 100
|F𝑉|
∑︁
𝑓∈F𝑉
1
|I𝑓,𝑉|
∑︁
𝑖∈I𝑓,𝑉
𝑧𝑖.
(39)
Here, I𝑓,𝑉is the fixed score-eligible population in family 𝑓, and F𝑉contains families with a nonempty
population. Eligibility requires applicable task annotations and at least one geometry and one
dynamics measurement. Equal family weights prevent large families from dominating the score. A
score of 100 requires successful construction, full functional credit, and zero error in every included
fidelity measurement.
Applicability and incomplete evaluation.
Eligibility and constituent metrics are determined by the
reference annotations, independently of candidate delivery or measurement availability. Confirmed
build failures remain in the denominator with 𝑧𝑖= 0; their unmeasured geometric and dynamic errors
are not assigned fictitious values. Missing applicable measurements, unresolved evaluator failures,
or incompatible evaluation versions leave the complete-manifest score unavailable. An average over
available records or a diagnostic that substitutes zeros for unresolved evaluations is a different statistic
and must be identified separately. Comparisons require the same instance population, normalization
parameters, applicability rules, and metric versions. These conditions also apply when comparing
coding agents with HAR.


Video2World
64
D
Additional Experiments
D.1
Cross-Execution Diagnostics for World Reconstruction and Behavior
Task Success in Table 2 is an end-to-end measure of the submitted scene–behavior pair: the agent’s
own behavior is executed in the agent’s own reconstructed scene. A failure can therefore arise from
the scene, the behavior, or their interaction. To probe these factors, we cross-execute behaviors and
scenes using the frozen deliverables from the nine main-experiment runs and score the resulting
executions with the same final per-family evaluators and task predicates used in the main experiment.
This analysis is diagnostic only and does not alter any main benchmark score or denominator.
Design.
Each instance provides two scenes, the agent’s reconstructed scene and the selected human-
assisted reference (HAR) scene, together with three behaviors: the agent’s submitted action stream,
the selected HAR action stream, and a scripted probe. The probe reads the simulator object state of
the scene in which it is executed, takes its grasp pose from the first closure frame of the HAR execution
relative to the manipulated object, targets the object end pose implied by the family predicate, and
executes pre-grasp, grasp, lift 15 cm, transport, place, release, and retreat. A second pass corrects
the placement target using the in-hand object pose measured in the first pass. The probe therefore
measures compatibility of a reconstructed scene with a fixed state-aware controller; it should not be
interpreted as an intrinsic test of whether the scene is usable by every possible controller.
Agent actions are replayed in the HAR scene in two ways: as submitted, which preserves the
original trajectory, and anchored, where the trajectory is translated in XYZ to the annotated initial
object position in the HAR scene. The anchored variant uses privileged information and serves only
as a diagnostic of behavior after removing the initial object-position offset. HAR actions replayed in
the agent scene are translated to the agent scene’s initial object position and executed open-loop.
Table A13 summarizes the resulting cells.
Table A13. Cross-execution cells. Each transplanted behavior is inserted into the target scene package and
scored by that instance’s final family evaluator using the corresponding main-experiment extrinsics.
Cell
Behavior
Scene
Own success
agent actions
agent scene
HAR actions × agent scene
HAR actions, translated, open-loop
agent scene
Agent × HAR scene (submitted)
agent actions, unchanged
HAR scene
Agent × HAR scene (anchored)†
agent actions, XYZ-translated
HAR scene
HAR × HAR
HAR actions
HAR scene
Probe × scene
state-aware scripted controller
either scene
†Uses the annotated initial object position; diagnostic only.
The diagnostic preserves the final task predicates and evaluation logic of the main experiment.
The main paper documents some execution-condition differences between HAR and coding-agent
workflows, so these cross-execution cells should be interpreted as controller–scene compatibility tests
under the retained benchmark configurations rather than as a fully matched causal decomposition of
scene and behavior quality.
Scope and conditioning.
The current cross-execution implementation covers 15 task families: Fur-
nitureBench, DROID rigid manipulation, the four single-arm human-demonstration families (HOT3D,


Video2World
65
DexYCB, HOI4D, and OakInk2), and planar T-body pushing. RoboDojo, household configurations,
bimanual human configurations, rope routing, and soft-toy packing are outside the current imple-
mentation. Two lampshade cases are excluded from this supplementary diagnostic because their
transplanted-controller predicates are degenerate. This exclusion is specific to the cross-execution
analysis and does not modify the main benchmark manifest or its reported scores.
A cross-execution cell is informative only when the transplanted behavior is known to succeed in
the HAR scene. We therefore report two conditioned sets. Set A contains the 20 instances on which
the probe succeeds in the HAR scene, spanning four families: DROID pick-place (9), leg insertion (7),
bulb insertion (3), and HOT3D pick-place (1). Set B contains the 44 instances on which the HAR
actions succeed in the HAR scene, spanning eight families: chair nut, DexYCB lift, DROID, HOI4D,
HOT3D, leg insertion, OakInk2, and planar T-body pushing. The probe is executed in agent scenes
only for Set A.
Within the supported diagnostic subset, the probe fails in the HAR scene on 70 instances, is
not applicable on 24, and times out on one. Non-applicable cases include DexYCB lift and HOI4D
placement, for which the current probe does not implement the corresponding predicate, together
with planar pushing and one DROID pushing instance without a graspable target. Assembly families
such as cabinet, drawer, chair-back, and round-table-base construction have no passing HAR-action or
probe execution and therefore enter neither conditioned set.
Cross-execution reporting uses only recoverable paired diagnostic records. Rows for which a
required transplantation execution or pairing receipt cannot be recovered are marked unavailable
for this supplementary analysis; they are not reclassified as task failures and do not change the
main benchmark results. In the current diagnostic records, 21 own-execution rows and 32 agent-in-
HAR-scene rows are unavailable, and five probe executions failed to run. Success rates below are
pooled over available rows. We additionally report family macro-averages and instance-clustered 95%
bootstrap intervals, where all model rows associated with the same instance are resampled together.
Because Sets A and B are explicitly conditioned subsets, their success rates should not be compared
directly with the full-benchmark Task Success values in Table ??.
Controls.
Two controls validate the transplantation pipeline. First, replaying HAR actions in the
rebuilt HAR scene reproduces the recorded HAR outcome on every supported instance tested. Second,
replaying agent actions in their own reconstructed scenes reproduces Table ?? on 232/232 checked
rows, comprising all available rows from Claude Opus 5 and GPT-6 Astra. Rebuilt HAR package trees
also match the retained reference_execution package hashes for all checked instances.
Findings.
On Set A, the state-aware probe completes the task in 13.1% of agent-built scenes,
compared with 24.3% own success on the corresponding available rows; open-loop replay of HAR
actions succeeds in 12.1%. Set B shows the same aggregate pattern, with 9.9% HAR-action transfer
into agent scenes versus 16.2% own success. Thus, successful execution often depends on compatibility
between the scene and behavior produced together by the same agent: replacing the submitted
behavior with a controller constructed for the HAR scene frequently removes that success.
Agent actions replayed unchanged in the HAR scene succeed on only 2.3% of available rows in
both sets. Translating the same trajectories to the annotated initial object position increases success
to 15.5% on Set A and 15.1% on Set B, bringing the rate substantially closer to own-scene success.
This recovery indicates that initial object-position mismatch is a major contributor to cross-scene


Video2World
66
Table A14. Cross-execution success (%) pooled over nine models, with instance-clustered 95% confidence
intervals, family macro-average, and number of available rows. Sets A and B are conditioned diagnostic subsets,
not the full Video2World evaluation population.
Set
Cell
Pooled
Macro
Rows
A (20 inst.)
Own success
24.3 [14.9, 34.6]
25.9
177
Probe × agent scene
13.1 [6.3, 20.8]
7.3
175
HAR actions × agent scene
12.1 [5.8, 19.5]
6.9
174
Agent × HAR scene (submitted)
2.3 [0.6, 4.5]
1.4
174
Agent × HAR scene (anchored)†
15.5 [7.3, 24.6]
8.7
174
Probe × HAR scene
100 (condition)
100
180
B (44 inst.)
Own success
16.2 [11.0, 22.4]
11.0
390
HAR actions × agent scene
9.9 [6.0, 14.4]
6.1
385
Agent × HAR scene (submitted)
2.3 [1.0, 3.9]
2.7
385
Agent × HAR scene (anchored)†
15.1 [9.9, 20.7]
14.7
385
HAR × HAR
100 (condition)
100
390
behavior failure. Because anchoring uses privileged object position and leaves other scene and control
differences unchanged, it does not by itself establish object-position estimation as the unique or
dominant source of behavior error.
Table A15 further decomposes the rows using two diagnostic transfer tests. For Set A, the scene
test is whether the probe succeeds in the agent scene; for Set B, it is whether HAR actions succeed
in the agent scene. In both sets, the behavior test is whether anchored agent actions succeed in the
HAR scene. Among own successes, 23% (Set A) and 19% (Set B) pass both transfer tests, whereas
44% and 48% pass neither. These cases succeed as submitted scene–behavior pairs even though
neither component transfers under the corresponding diagnostic, providing evidence of substantial
scene–behavior co-adaptation. Among own failures, only 6% and 9% pass the behavior test while
failing the scene test, so cases attributable to the reconstructed scene alone form a smaller pattern
under this diagnostic.
Table A15. Outcome decomposition (row counts). The scene test is probe success in the agent scene for Set A
and HAR-action success in the agent scene for Set B. The behavior test is anchored agent-action success in the
HAR scene. These are transfer diagnostics rather than intrinsic binary labels of scene or behavior quality.
Set A (172 rows)
Set B (385 rows)
Own
Scene / Behavior test
rows
share
rows
share
Success
✓/ ✓
10
23%
12
19%
✓/ ×
7
16%
7
11%
× / ✓
7
16%
14
22%
× / ×
19
44%
30
48%
Failure
✓/ ✓
2
2%
4
1%
✓/ ×
4
3%
15
5%
× / ✓
8
6%
28
9%
× / ×
115
89%
275
85%


Video2World
67
Per-model and per-family results.
Table A16 reports Set-A results by model. Fable-5.1 has 70.0%
own success and 40.0% probe-in-scene success on this conditioned subset. GPT-6 Astra has 35.0%
own success, while its scenes support the probe on 5.0% of rows and open-loop HAR-action replay
on 30.0%. This is the largest disagreement between the two scene-transfer diagnostics among the
evaluated models, and we have not traced its cause at the instance level. With roughly 20 rows per
model and confidence intervals spanning approximately 20–40 percentage points, these per-model
differences should be treated as descriptive.
At the family level, DROID pick-place is the only Set-A family whose agent scenes support the
probe at an appreciable rate; leg insertion, bulb insertion, and HOT3D placement rarely do. Drawer
insertion reaches 23.3% own success (10/43; Opus 5 4/5, Fable-5.1 3/5, DeepSeek 2/5, GPT-5.6
1/5), but neither the HAR actions nor the probe produce a passing HAR-scene execution for that
family. Its own successes therefore cannot be attributed by the present cross-execution diagnostic.
Full model×family results are released with the benchmark.
Table A16. Set-A cross-execution success (%) per model; 20 valid rows per model unless noted. Instance-
clustered 95% intervals span approximately 20–40 percentage points, so per-model differences are descriptive.
Model
Own Probe × agent HAR × agent Agent × HAR (subm.) Agent × HAR (anch.)†
Fable-5.1
70.0
40.0
25.0
5.0
35.0
Claude Opus 5
42.1
21.1
21.1
5.3
10.5
GPT-6 Astra
35.0
5.0
30.0
5.0
25.0
GPT-5.6 Sol
15.0
15.8
10.0
0.0
15.0
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
15.0
5.0
5.3
0.0
15.8
Gemini 3.8 Flash
15.0
15.0
10.0
5.0
0.0
Kimi K3
10.0
5.0
5.0
0.0
15.0
Qwen3.8 Max
10.0
5.0
0.0
0.0
5.6
GLM-5.3 Flash
5.6
5.9
0.0
0.0
16.7
Limitations.
Coverage is the main limitation. Set A contains only 20 instances across four families,
with 16 belonging to DROID or leg insertion, while several assembly families have no passing HAR-
action or probe execution and therefore cannot enter the conditioned analysis. Set B provides broader
coverage but remains a selected subset of the full benchmark.
The probe is a fixed state-aware controller whose grasp pose is derived from the HAR execution.
Failure of the probe in an agent scene therefore shows that the submitted scene is insufficiently com-
patible with this specific transferred controller; it does not show that no controller could successfully
act in that scene. HAR-action replay is open-loop and imposes a different, generally stricter transfer
test, which explains why the two scene diagnostics agree in aggregate direction but can diverge on
individual models. The anchored agent-action cell uses privileged initial object position and should be
interpreted only as a diagnostic of trajectory compatibility after removing translational initialization
error.
Finally, the main benchmark documents execution-condition differences between HAR and coding-
agent workflows. The present study retains the available benchmark execution configurations and
therefore does not constitute a perfectly matched causal intervention on scene and behavior alone.
Each reported row also comes from a single frozen generation from the main experiment, with no
repeated reconstruction runs.


Video2World
68
Can agent-built worlds support experience beyond the source video?
We test whether successful
reconstructions support new configurations using nine source videos. For each evaluated model, we
use its successful initial reconstruction of each source video. Each reconstruction is tested on 20
layouts formed by translating either the manipulated object or the target in two predefined table
directions at five magnitudes (2, 5, 10, 15, and 20 cm), yielding 180 paired layout evaluations per
model. For each source, both directions are verified across all five magnitudes using the human-
assisted reconstruction before evaluating candidate layouts. The same videos and displacements
are used across models. This experiment therefore measures reuse conditional on successful initial
reconstruction and the prescribed layout selection.
Direct reuse executes the original robot behavior without code changes, retaining any existing
feedback or planning logic. Agent adaptation starts from the same original submission and displaced
layout, and allows the corresponding coding agent to revise robot behavior using simulation feedback.
The agent receives the source video, original submission, and layout change. The evaluator fixes the
displaced scene, assets, physical parameters, and task criteria throughout adaptation. Both settings
use the same runtime observation interface. Adaptation starts with a fresh context for each layout
and stops after 10 rollout attempts or 10 minutes; the final behavior is evaluated from a clean reset.
Figure A6 shows that successful reconstructions can support executions beyond the observed
layout. Across the three models and 540 paired layout evaluations, direct reuse succeeds in 97.22%
of cases (525/540), increasing to 99.26% (536/540) after adaptation. Adaptation recovers 86.67% of
direct-reuse failures (13/15), while turning 0.38% of initially successful cases into failures (2/525),
yielding a net gain of 11 successful executions. At the largest displacement of 20 cm, success increases
from 93.52% to 98.15%, although performance is not monotonic in displacement.
The benefit varies across models. GPT-6 improves from 94.44% to 100%, and Fable 5.1 from
98.89% to 100%, recovering all ten and two of their respective direct-reuse failures. Gemini 3.8
Flash decreases slightly from 98.33% to 97.78%: it recovers one failure but introduces two new
failures. Adaptation therefore provides a means of repairing behavior under changed layouts, but does
not guarantee improvement. Across the 540 evaluated adaptation sessions, including unsuccessful
outcomes, the mean cost is 1.06 rollout attempts and 3.26 minutes per layout, excluding additional
infrastructure and recovery launches.
These results demonstrate substantial layout reuse within the selected cohort, with adaptation
providing a modest aggregate gain over an already strong direct-reuse baseline. The evidence is
conditional on successful initial reconstruction and reference-verified translations of the same nine
source tasks; it does not establish generalization to new task families or improved downstream policy
learning.


Video2World
69
0
2
5
10
15
20
Displacement (cm)
50
60
70
80
90
100
E2E success (%)
GPT-6
0
2
5
10
15
20
Displacement (cm)
Fable 5.1
0
2
5
10
15
20
Displacement (cm)
Gemini 3.8 Flash
Direct reuse
Agent adaptation
Figure A6. Robot Experience Beyond the Source Video. Direct reuse and agent adaptation across translated
object and target layouts. The same nine source videos (three per task family) contribute at every displacement,
with 180 paired layout evaluations per model. Each source uses the same two table directions and both
moved-object roles at every magnitude. Both directions were verified using the human-assisted reconstruction
jointly across all five magnitudes before new candidate evaluations. Success is averaged within video and then
across task families. Shading shows 95% paired source-video bootstrap intervals within family. The 0 cm points
are verified original baselines without adaptation.
E
Cost Analysis
All methods were assigned the same nominal per-episode budgets: a 3-hour wall-clock limit, a
$60 API-spend threshold, and at most three package submissions (Appendix A.5). The benchmark-
managed executor directly enforces these limits for the seven OpenCode configurations. Fable-5.1 and
GPT-6 Astra run through their native agent harnesses under the corresponding limits, while retaining
framework-specific checkpoint and refinement semantics. Table A17 reports per-episode cost. For
the OpenCode configurations, API cost is the provider-billed amount reported through OpenRouter.
For Fable-5.1 and GPT-6 Astra, it is the list-price equivalent computed from the native harness token
counts; comparable API-call counts were not recorded. Evaluation uses one NVIDIA L40S per episode
for reference execution, simulation of the delivered package, and metric computation.
Running all nine methods over the 222-instance benchmark corresponds to approximately $9.7k
in API spend, 1,044 agent-hours, and 286 L40S GPU-hours of evaluation at the reported per-episode
averages. API spend is concentrated in Fable-5.1 and Claude Opus 5, which each cost about $14
per episode and together account for approximately 63% of the estimated total. The flash-tier
configurations average less than $2 per episode. Cost does not track score monotonically: GPT-6 Astra
achieves the second-highest V2WScore at about $6 per episode, while Kimi K3 uses the most agent
time, averaging 82 minutes per episode, without a corresponding score advantage.
No episode exceeds the 3-hour wall-clock allowance; the longest recorded episode lasts 164 minutes.
One Claude Opus 5 episode records $61.07 because delayed provider reporting can overshoot the
$60 observed-spend threshold. Evaluation cost varies comparatively little across methods, from 7.4
to 10.1 GPU-minutes per episode. At the reported average, adding a method over all 222 instances
requires approximately 32 L40S GPU-hours of evaluation, in addition to its generation spend and
agent time.


Video2World
70
Table A17. Per-episode cost of each method. API cost is in USD; agent time is wall-clock time from the
first model call to termination; evaluation time is GPU-minutes on one L40S. Estimated totals extrapolate the
reported per-episode means over all 222 benchmark instances.
API cost (USD)
Agent time
API calls
Eval. GPU
Method
mean median
max
est. total
mean (min)
mean
mean (min)
Fable-5.1†
14.03
12.90
45.19
3,115
37.5
–
10.1
GPT-6 Astra†
6.40
3.91
24.58
1,421
14.6
–
9.7
Claude Opus 5
13.83
10.03
61.07
3,070
32.6
59
8.7
Kimi K3
5.51
4.81
13.27
1,223
82.2
72
7.4
GPT-5.6 Sol
1.39
1.00
7.89
309
3.7
17
8.2
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
0.23
0.21
0.62
51
13.9
53
8.3
Gemini 3.8 Flash
1.53
1.02
8.15
340
18.6
100
7.5
Qwen3.8 Max
0.67
0.60
2.26
149
26.0
34
8.4
GLM-5.3 Flash
0.31
0.23
1.46
69
53.0
60
8.9
All methods
4.88
–
61.07
9,746
31.3
–
8.6
†List-price equivalent computed from token counts recorded by the native harness; API-call counts were not recorded.
Estimated totals are the displayed means multiplied by 222 and rounded to the nearest dollar.
F
Case Studies Across Demonstration Sources
We examine six demonstrations to explain how geometric fidelity, executed object motion, and
task completion can disagree. The cases cover real robot demonstrations, egocentric human video,
and simulation-generated robot demonstrations. Three detailed reconstructions use Claude Opus 5;
two further demonstrations permit a comparison of all nine coding models on the same instance;
and a native stacking task is examined under two target embodiments. Cases were selected for their
diagnostic value, rather than to estimate the prevalence of particular errors or rank models.
Each result refers to a particular submitted scene, its own robot behavior, and the recorded physical
execution. Scores are taken from that submission’s retained evaluation record. The accompanying
evidence identifies the instance, model, package, scoring record, and execution used for each analysis.
Image sequences are arranged by task phase unless an explicit time axis is shown; phase corre-
spondence does not imply equal execution speed. Scene Chamfer Distance (Scene CD), translation
absolute pose error (APE), and Task Success retain their distinct meanings from Appendix C.
F.1
Robot Demonstrations: Pose and Task-Critical Geometry
The first two cases reconstruct DROID demonstrations with a Panda arm and Robotiq gripper. They
illustrate two different limitations of interpreting a favorable geometric or endpoint measurement as
complete reconstruction quality.
Task completion despite pose disagreement.
In the first demonstration, an orange block is placed
on a green block. The Opus reconstruction completes this interaction and reaches all four recorded
progress stages. Its terminal relative-position error is 1.08 cm, with translation APE of 2.87 cm and
translation RPE of 1.80 cm. Geometry also gives small surface errors: Scene CD is 1.23 cm and object
Shape CD is 0.77 cm. Nevertheless, initial centre error is 5.92 cm, size error is 1.31 cm, and rotation
APE is 144◦.


Video2World
71
Source video
Initial
Interaction
Terminal
Candidate
Annotation
Object orientation
Agent
Task success  |  Scene CD 1.23 cm  |  Translation APE 2.87 cm
Figure A7. Task completion despite pose disagreement. DROID block stacking with a Panda–Robotiq
embodiment. The source and candidate execution are shown at three task phases. The top-view inset compares
the submitted and annotated block orientations. Successful stacking coexists with a large object-frame rotation
error; the rigidly aligned shape score does not measure the submitted world orientation.
Figure A7 shows why these quantities need separate interpretation. The submitted object is a
4.5 cm cube, whereas the annotated dimensions are approximately 3.5 × 3.8 × 4.1 cm. Its submitted
yaw is −138.4◦, compared with 17◦in the annotation. Reducing the cube’s yaw modulo its quarter-
turn symmetry gives 41.6◦; even this surface-equivalent representative differs from the annotated
orientation. Shape CD is evaluated after rigid alignment, so it does not measure this world-pose
discrepancy. Scene CD measures registered visible surfaces and can remain small for a compact,
nearly symmetric object. Rotation APE instead evaluates the corresponding object frames under the
annotated symmetry, which does not remove the reported disagreement.
Successful stacking therefore establishes that the submitted behavior can manipulate the submitted
block and satisfy the specified relation. It does not establish accurate object dimensions, initial
placement, or orientation history. Conversely, the large angular discrepancy does not negate the
observed completion of an orientation-tolerant stacking task.
A plausible endpoint without the required receiving geometry.
In the second demonstration,
a blue block is inserted through an opening in the top of a shape-sorting box. The reconstruction
grasps, lifts, and releases the block, which rests only 1.12 cm from the annotated receiver-relative
goal. Translation APE is 6.75 cm. Despite this favorable endpoint, Task Success is zero and Task
Progress is 75%.
The submitted receiver is an open container with 8 mm walls, rather than a box with an apertured
top (Figure A8). Its top-face coverage is 0.23, below the required 0.50; the annotated box has
coverage 0.85. The receiver therefore lacks a task-defining structure, even though the block reaches
an admissible relative position. The coverage test verifies the presence of upper receiving geometry; it
should not be interpreted as an independent measurement of passage through a particular aperture.
Scene CD is 4.33 cm, while the manipulated block’s Shape CD is 0.70 cm. The weighted missing-
geometry fraction is 0.50. Here that diagnostic does not mean that the block was omitted: the delivered


Video2World
72
Source video
Initial
Interaction
Terminal
Candidate
Annotation
Receiver geometry
Agent
Task failure  |  Scene CD 4.33 cm  |  Translation APE 6.75 cm
Figure A8. Endpoint proximity does not establish the required interaction. DROID shape-sorter insertion.
The block is transferred into the submitted open container, but the receiver lacks the apertured top visible
in the annotation. The final relative-position error passes its tolerance; top-face coverage fails its separate
requirement. The source and candidate rows show task phases, rather than equal timestamps.
block exceeds the surface-distance threshold after registration. These measurements describe different
aspects of the reconstruction. Surface discrepancy characterizes geometric correspondence, whereas
the task-specific receiver condition determines whether the intended insertion environment was
constructed. An endpoint tolerance alone would miss this failure.
F.2
Nine Models on the Same Instances
We next compare Claude Opus 5, GPT-5.6, Gemini 3.8 Flash, GLM-5.3 Flash, Kimi K3,
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash, Qwen3.8 Max, GPT-6 Astra, and Fable 5.1 on two shared instances. All nine
have a completed physical execution and evaluation record for both cases. Comparisons below hold
the demonstration, target embodiment, and task specification fixed within each instance. They
concern these particular submissions, rather than model-level success rates. Figures A9 and A10
show every model’s reconstruction, with the same model order in both grids. Each panel pairs the
last recorded review-video frame with the submission’s geometric error, motion error, and complete
evaluation decision. Figure A11 complements these views with the task-specific decision variables.
Receiver-relative completion in bowl nesting.
The DROID task is to place a black bowl inside
a peach-coloured bowl. The receiver is therefore another bowl, not the tabletop. Opus, GPT-5.6,
and DeepSeek complete the task, with terminal relative-position errors of 1.36, 2.47, and 4.47 cm,
respectively. Gemini, Qwen, Kimi, GLM, Astra, and Fable fail, with errors of 6.14, 16.16, 23.57, 29.43,
25.02, and 25.73 cm. Figure A11(a) shows these errors alongside the 5 cm positional tolerance. The
plotted distance is one component of the decision; completion also uses the recorded interaction,
release, and terminal-rest conditions.
Geometric correspondence does not determine these outcomes. Fable has a lower Scene CD than
Opus, 2.40 versus 2.87 cm, but fails to establish the receiving relation. Their translation APE values
are 18.02 and 8.10 cm, respectively. GPT-5.6 succeeds despite a Scene CD of 8.10 cm and translation


Video2World
73
APE of 12.23 cm. These examples show that geometric fidelity and task completion can disagree
within a fixed instance; they do not establish statistical independence between the two dimensions.
Terminal lift versus physically valid execution.
The second instance is a DexYCB demonstration
of lifting a can, retargeted to a Franka arm. Opus and Kimi succeed, with terminal height increases of
19.60 and 18.84 cm, above the 10 cm requirement. Their executions also pass the applicable physical
checks. Their translation APE values are 4.71 and 6.82 cm, and their Scene CD values are 6.63 and
5.45 cm.
Qwen and Astra satisfy the ungated terminal task condition: their height increases are 16.90 and
20.67 cm, and the object is at rest. Both nevertheless receive zero Task Success. Qwen violates the
inverse-kinematics feasibility check; Astra violates the robot-penetration check. These are distinct
recorded violations. Astra’s Scene CD is 2.48 cm and translation APE is 6.31 cm, illustrating why
neither favorable surface correspondence nor a close object trajectory replaces physical validity.
DeepSeek and Fable instead pass the physical checks but do not complete the lift. The object’s
terminal height changes by approximately −0.20 cm and 0.006 cm, respectively. Fable’s Scene CD is
1.75 cm, the lowest among these nine reconstructions, while translation APE is 8.39 cm. Its geometry
is therefore relatively accurate under the recorded surface metric, but its behavior does not achieve
the required state change. GPT-5.6, Gemini, and GLM record both robot penetration and infeasible
inverse kinematics. The first two also have extreme negative terminal displacements, approximately
−16.0 and −69.4 m; these are abnormal executed states, not plausible lifting motions. GLM’s terminal
rise is only 1.04 cm and does not meet the height requirement.
Figure A11(b) distinguishes valid but unsuccessful execution from execution rejected by physical
checks. In particular, the Qwen and Astra outcomes demonstrate that the validity condition changes
the success decision even when the ungated terminal task condition passes. The height and rest tests
alone do not independently certify sustained grasp contact; claims about holding must rely on the
corresponding execution evidence.
F.3
Egocentric Human Demonstrations under a Robot Embodiment
Task completion with spatial and temporal mismatch.
A HOT3D head-camera recording shows a
person moving a food package into a bowl. Opus reconstructs the scene and executes the interaction
with a Franka arm. The execution passes the applicable physical checks and all five recorded progress
stages. The package finishes 2.7 cm from the axis of the submitted bowl, whose rim radius is 14.0 cm.
Its terminal relative-position error against the demonstrated relation is 6.88 cm. This error is a
diagnostic rather than the bowl-containment success threshold.
The successful interaction occurs in a displaced reconstruction. Scene CD is 6.79 cm, initial
object-centre error is 28.2 cm, and the recorded scene-registration translation has magnitude 28.4 cm.
The submitted tabletop lies approximately 26 cm above the annotated support. The side view in
Figure A12 exposes this disagreement, which is less apparent in the original camera view. The
submitted package is also initially 38.6 cm from its bowl in the support plane, compared with 55.3 cm
in the annotation. A single global registration cannot remove this relative-layout discrepancy.
The weighted missing-geometry fraction is 0.49, although the package and kettle are present in
the submission. Their registered median surface residuals are approximately 17.1 and 5.1 cm, so
they exceed the coverage threshold. As in the blue-block case, this diagnostic describes inadequate
surface correspondence rather than necessarily absent semantic entities.


Video2World
74
Demonstration: initial
Demonstration: terminal
Black bowl into peach bowl
Panda + Robotiq 2F-85
Scene CD / translation APE
Both errors in centimetres
Success
Scene CD 2.87  /  APE 8.10
Claude Opus 5
Success
Scene CD 8.10  /  APE 12.23
GPT-5.6
Failure: receiver relation
Scene CD 5.37  /  APE 15.78
Gemini 3.8 Flash
Failure: receiver relation
Scene CD 4.33  /  APE 18.01
GLM-5.3 Flash
Failure: receiver relation
Scene CD 3.29  /  APE 18.05
Kimi K3
Success
Scene CD 2.80  /  APE 10.93
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
Failure: receiver relation
Scene CD 9.03  /  APE 11.10
Qwen3.8 Max
Failure: receiver relation
Scene CD 7.18  /  APE 16.29
GPT-6 Astra
Failure: receiver relation
Scene CD 2.40  /  APE 18.02
Fable 5.1
Figure A9. Nine reconstructions of the same bowl-nesting demonstration. Top: the source video’s initial
and terminal configurations. The nine model panels show the last frame of each submission’s evaluation review
video, using a common crop within this instance. Scene CD and translation APE are in centimetres. Opus,
GPT-5.6, and DeepSeek succeed; the other six fail the receiving relation. Fable’s smaller surface error than
Opus does not imply successful placement. Scores and decisions come from the complete execution records,
including terminal settling; the displayed video endpoints are qualitative views rather than substitutes for
those records.


Video2World
75
Demonstration: initial
Demonstration: terminal
Lift the can
Franka arm
Scene CD / translation APE
Both errors in centimetres
Success
Scene CD 6.63  /  APE 4.71
Claude Opus 5
Invalid: penetration + IK
Scene CD 4.82  /  APE 39.85
GPT-5.6
Invalid: penetration + IK
Scene CD 4.31  /  APE 83.97
Gemini 3.8 Flash
Invalid: penetration + IK
Scene CD 8.13  /  APE 27.38
GLM-5.3 Flash
Success
Scene CD 5.45  /  APE 6.82
Kimi K3
Failure: no lift
Scene CD 6.59  /  APE 10.03
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
Invalid: IK
Scene CD 4.33  /  APE 5.29
Qwen3.8 Max
Invalid: penetration
Scene CD 2.48  /  APE 6.31
GPT-6 Astra
Failure: no lift
Scene CD 1.75  /  APE 8.39
Fable 5.1
Figure A10. Nine reconstructions of the same can-lifting demonstration. Source frames and model panels
follow Figure A9, with Scene CD and translation APE in centimetres. Opus and Kimi succeed. Qwen and Astra
meet the ungated terminal lift condition but violate inverse-kinematics feasibility and robot-penetration checks,
respectively. DeepSeek and Fable have valid executions without the required lift. The remaining three violate
both checks. In particular, an elevated can in a rendered frame does not establish physical validity, which is
determined from the execution record.


Video2World
76
0
10
20
30
Relative-position error (cm)
Claude Opus 5
GPT-5.6
Gemini 3.8 Flash
GLM-5.3 Flash
Kimi K3
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
Qwen3.8 Max
GPT-6 Astra
Fable 5.1
1.4
2.5
6.1
29.4
23.6
4.5
16.2
25.0
25.7
5 cm
(a) Bowl nesting
0
5
10
15
20
Terminal height change (cm)
19.6
-16.0 m
-69.4 m
1.0
18.8
-0.2
16.9
20.7
0.0
10 cm
(b) Can lifting
Task success
Task condition not met
Physical validity rejected
Figure A11. Nine models, two tasks, and different reasons for failure. (a) Terminal receiver-relative
position error for black-bowl nesting. (b) Terminal can-height change for DexYCB lifting. Dashed lines mark the
task-specific positional and height thresholds, which are components of the complete predicates. Green denotes
Task Success, grey an unmet task condition, and red rejection by physical-validity checks. Qwen and Astra
exceed the lift threshold but are rejected for inverse-kinematics infeasibility and robot penetration, respectively.
Left-pointing markers denote out-of-range negative displacements, with their values stated explicitly. No
aggregate model ranking is inferred from these two selected cases.
The execution clock explains an additional discrepancy.
Translation APE is 41.2 cm, rotation
APE is 167◦, and translation RPE is 10.6 cm. The submitted behavior contains 37 command rows at
0.2 s intervals, spanning 7.2 s, whereas the demonstration spans 1.6 s. On the demonstration clock,
much of the demonstrated transport is compared with an execution that has not yet performed the
corresponding motion. Figure A12 plots displacement against the separate recorded clocks, without
stretching either trajectory. The recorded duration-normalized translation error is lower, 18.1 cm, but
remains a diagnostic outside the reported APE.
The instance therefore demonstrates two independent limitations of task completion as a recon-
struction criterion. The containment condition can be satisfied relative to the submitted bowl even
when the scene is globally displaced, and the same interaction can be completed at a substantially
different rate. Geometry and motion fidelity expose those discrepancies separately.
F.4
Native Robot Demonstrations across Target Embodiments
The final demonstration is a RoboDojo three-block stacking task, assigned separately to dual
ARX X5 arms and dual xArm7 arms. Both configurations use the same source video and semantic
objective. We examine the formally admitted instances and the submitted executions of Astra and
Fable. Figure A13 shows the demonstrated arrangement and the four recorded terminal states.


Video2World
77
Source video
Initial
Transport
Terminal
Candidate
Annotation (grey) / candidate (colour)
Initial scenes in a common frame
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Recorded time (s)
0
20
40
60
Displacement (cm)
Demonstration
Execution
Figure A12. Successful containment with spatial and temporal mismatch. HOT3D food-package placement
by a Franka arm. Top: source and candidate execution at selected task phases. Bottom left: the annotated scene
in grey and the reconstruction in colour, viewed from the side in a common frame. Bottom right: displacement
of each recorded object origin from its own initial position. The shaded interval is the 1.6 s demonstration
window; the candidate execution continues to 7.2 s. This displacement plot illustrates timing and is not itself
an APE curve.
An accurate scene without the required object motion.
Astra’s X5 reconstruction has Scene CD
of 1.66 cm but zero Task Progress and zero Task Success. The three blocks remain stationary to
numerical precision throughout the recorded execution, and the native stacking predicate is false.
Translation APE is 12.02 cm, averaged over the task objects, while terminal relative-position error
is 33.99 cm. These observations locate the failure in the realized interaction without attributing an
unmeasured contact or actuator mechanism to it.
Under the xArm7 embodiment, Astra succeeds on the same demonstration. Scene CD is 1.95 cm,
translation APE is 1.19 cm, and terminal relative-position error is 0.16 cm. The different outcomes
illustrate why the target robot and its control interface are part of the reconstruction instance: scene
correspondence alone does not establish that the submitted behavior will manipulate the objects
under that embodiment.
A correct-looking stack with unmet execution requirements.
Fable succeeds with the X5 arms,
with Scene CD of 1.42 cm, translation APE of 1.50 cm, and terminal relative-position error of 0.67 cm.
Its xArm7 execution produces an apparently correct stack and has even smaller geometric and endpoint


Video2World
78
Source: initial arrangement
Source: demonstrated stack
Failure: no object motion
Scene CD 1.66 cm  |  APE 12.02 cm
Astra / dual X5
Success
Scene CD 1.42 cm  |  APE 1.50 cm
Fable / dual X5
Success
Scene CD 1.95 cm  |  APE 1.19 cm
Astra / dual xArm7
Failure: return + coupling
Scene CD 0.79 cm  |  APE 1.55 cm
Fable / dual xArm7
Figure A13. One demonstration, two target robots, and distinct execution outcomes. Top: the RoboDojo
source video’s initial and terminal arrangements. Middle and bottom: terminal states of Astra and Fable with
X5 and xArm7 arms. Each panel is drawn from its own recorded physical execution; insets magnify the outlined
receiver region. Astra’s X5 objects remain stationary, while its xArm7 submission succeeds. Fable succeeds
with X5; its xArm7 stack satisfies the object-stacking subpredicate but fails robot return and gripper-coupling
checks. Scene CD and translation APE are shown in centimetres. A visually plausible final stack therefore does
not certify the complete interaction.


Video2World
79
errors: Scene CD is 0.79 cm and terminal relative-position error is 0.45 cm, with translation APE of
1.55 cm. Nevertheless, Task Success and reported progress are zero.
The execution record identifies two deficiencies that a still image of the stack does not establish.
The stacking subpredicate passes, but the required robot-return condition fails. In addition, coupled
gripper joints violate their prescribed mechanical relation: the largest recorded follower-joint residual
is approximately 0.685 rad, against a tolerance of 0.02 rad. The evaluator rejects this execution and
suppresses its raw partial progress of 0.15. Thus, the favorable object arrangement is insufficient both
as evidence of the complete task and as evidence of valid robot mechanics. The native checks certify
their recorded constraints; they do not constitute a comprehensive collision certificate.
G
Limitations and Future Work
Video2World evaluates autonomous video-to-simulation end to end, while several aspects of
interactive world reconstruction remain open. First, functional correctness is measured from the joint
execution of the reconstructed environment and the agent-generated robot behavior. Consequently,
a failed rollout may originate from errors in the reconstructed world, the behavior policy, or their
interaction. Future evaluation could disentangle these factors through standardized probe behav-
iors, multiple independently generated controllers, or controlled interventions on the reconstructed
environment.
Second, the current benchmark primarily evaluates whether a reconstructed world can reproduce
the demonstrated interaction. This leaves open a stronger notion of world reconstruction: whether
the recovered environment remains physically and functionally valid under actions, configurations,
and goals that are not observed in the source video. Evaluating such counterfactual behavior could
distinguish task-specific reconstructions from reusable interactive worlds and provide a more direct
measure of whether an agent has recovered the underlying structure of the physical environment.
Third, measured performance reflects the complete coding-agent system, including the underlying
foundation model, agent scaffold, context management, tool use, and execution strategy. This
system-level evaluation matches how coding agents are deployed in practice, but does not isolate
which component is responsible for performance differences. Future work could independently vary
models, scaffolds, tools, and feedback mechanisms to better characterize the sources of progress in
autonomous world construction.
More broadly, Video2World focuses on reconstruction from a single embodied demonstration.
Extending this setting to multi-view observations, multiple demonstrations, active information gather-
ing, and progressively accumulated experience could move autonomous video-to-simulation from
reconstructing individual interactions toward learning persistent, reusable world models.
