Title: Catching Developers in the Flow: Low-Latency Agentic Program Repair at Google Scale

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2610.07289v1

Published Time: Wed, 07 Oct 2026 00:19:06 GMT

Number of Pages: 13

Markdown Content:
# Catching Developers in the Flow: Low-Latency Agentic Program Repair at Google Scale 

# Celal Ziftci ✉

Google New York, USA ziftci@google.com 

# Spencer Greene 

Google New York, USA greenespencer@google.com 

# Ray Liu 

Google New York, USA rayliu@google.com 

# Livio Dalloro 

Google New York, USA dalloro@google.com 

# Lorenzo Dini 

Google New York, USA dini@google.com 

## Abstract 

Manual repair of program failures is time-consuming and disruptive for software developers, particularly during the pre-submit phase where test failures occur within continuous integration systems. While Automated Program Repair has seen significant advance-ment through Large Language Models, existing state-of-the-art techniques primarily focus on post-submit workflows, operating offline without the low-latency requirements necessary to assist developers in real-time within their flow before they switch context. In this paper, we introduce FlowAgent , an AI agent deployed at Google to automatically repair test failures in the pre-submit outer-loop workflow inside continuous integration systems. Inte-grated into Google’s internal developer tools, Critique and Cider, 

FlowAgent utilizes a ReAct-style generate-and-validate loop, as well as rigorous pre-execution and post-execution abstention filters to ensure high-quality suggestions under strict latency constraints. Based on our case studies, FlowAgent is highly effective. First, a manual evaluation conducted on 195 real-world test failures demon-strated 67 .18% accuracy in suggesting correct fixes. Following its Google-wide deployment, FlowAgent suggested fixes on 295 ,508 changes, of which developers previewed 65 ,069 and applied 28 ,554. Developer feedback from interviews indicate that the agent is use-ful in suggesting correct fixes, integration of autonomous repair agents into industrial software engineering workflows is received well, while interesting challenges and opportunities still remain. 

## CCS Concepts 

• Software and its engineering → Software testing and debug-ging ; Maintaining software ; Automatic programming ; • Com-puting methodologies → Intelligent agents .

## Keywords 

Testing, Program, Repair, LLM, AI, Agent, Maintenance, Production 

## Preprint Notice 

This is a preprint of a paper accepted at the 41st IEEE/ACM In-ternational Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE 2026). 

## 1 Introduction 

Software developers frequently modify codebases to add new fea-tures, fix bugs, or improve system security and performance. To ensure these modifications do not introduce regressions into the wider codebase, they must be rigorously tested. When code modifi-cations result in test failures, developers must engage in program repair. This process is time-consuming and disruptive, particularly in the outer-loop pre-submit phase, where test failures occur outside the developers’ integrated development environments (IDE) within the continuous integration systems, like Google’s TAP [48, 49], to identify global regressions before a change is submitted. Upon notification of a failure, developers typically investigate the failure and implement fixes. Our analysis reveals that the median time between a failure notification and a developer’s subsequent code edit at Google is 27 .48 minutes. This provides a critical window where automated repair assistance could meaningfully improve developer velocity and reduce frustration. To alleviate the burden of manual debugging, the field of Au-tomated Program Repair (APR) has received significant attention. Early APR solutions relied on manually described mutation rules, symbolic constraints, and static analysis. More recently, the ad-vent of Large Language Models (LLMs) has driven a shift toward machine learning and autonomous agent-based APR. State-of-the-art tools such as SWE-Agent [76], AutoCodeRover [84], Google’s Passerine [57] and Meta’s Engineering Agent [43] utilize ReAct-style [79] loops to autonomously navigate codebases, utilize tools, and generate fixes. However, these approaches primarily focus on the post-submit workflow, designed to repair programs in an offline capacity, operating without latency constraints required to assist developers in real-time before they switch context out of their flow. In this paper, we introduce FlowAgent , an AI agent deployed at Google to automatically debug and repair test failures directly within the pre-submit outer-loop workflow. Successful fixes, along-side an AI-generated summary of the root cause and the fix, are surfaced in Google’s internal development tools, allowing develop-ers to preview and apply fixes inside their habitual workflows. To the best of our knowledge, unlike post-submit APR tools, 

FlowAgent is the first APR system in the pre-submit outer-loop workflow built to operate under critical latency requirements to catch developers in their active change modification flow. We provide a comprehensive empirical evaluation of FlowAgent 

with, to the best of our knowledge, the largest industrial dataset arXiv:2610.07289v1 [cs.SE] 5 Oct 2026 Celal Ziftci, Spencer Greene, Ray Liu, Livio Dalloro, and Lorenzo Dini 

reported to date, starting first with a manual evaluation, then continuing over a multi-month period in production. We discuss 

FlowAgent ’s success in obtaining valid fixes for thousands of fail-ures, and present detailed telemetry and qualitative insights derived from adoption and user interviews, highlighting developer prefer-ences, tooling adoption behaviors, and the varying levels of trust developers place in AI-generated code repairs. 

## 2 Manual Program Repair 

Developers modify code for many reasons, e.g. to fix bugs, to add new features, to improve performance or security. Once code is modified, in one or more files, developers create a change , a muta-tion to the code repository, reviewed and submitted atomically. 

## 2.1 Program Failure Stages 

Program failures may involve build failures where the code does not compile, or test failures where the program builds correctly but there are failing tests. Our work focuses on test failures only. In a change, when the modified code has accompanying tests that fail, either the program or the tests themselves may need to be updated. Such repairs may happen in two separate development stages: (1) Pre-submit : These repairs happen before the change is sub-mitted, typically as part of the change itself, without impacting other developers. (2) Post-submit : These repairs happen after breaking changes have been submitted to the repository, in turn impacting all developers intending to modify the code, as there are now failing tests regardless of any new changes. Our work focuses on the pre-submit workflow, before faulty code or tests are submitted to the repository. During pre-submit, automated testing typically follows two dis-tinct workflows depending on the stage of the change life-cycle: (1) Inner-loop : This is the code modification process within the integrated development environment (IDE). In this phase, either the developer or an AI coding agent, like Antigravity [14], runs unit tests related to the modified code, providing early feedback before a change is even created. The tests executed in this workflow are typically either adjacent or in close proximity to the edited code, e.g. in the same or the parent directory. (2) Outer-loop : This is the stage where the local changes are complete and a change has been created. This phase focuses on global correctness, finding and executing all dependent tests in the entire monorepo to ensure that the change does not introduce regressions into the wider codebase across Google. Our work focuses on the outer loop, where various tools at Google are used by developers during their program repair workflows, discussed below. 

## 2.2 Outer-Loop Pre-Submit Developer Tools 

There are several developer tools used at Google during the outer-loop pre-submit workflow to prepare a change for submission. 

Cider : This is Google’s internal IDE [54]. Developers typically start code changes in Cider, utilize more tooling to help iterate on code 

Figure 1: Test failure finding surfaced in Critique [59], Google’s web-based internal code review system. 

changes, and move between Cider and other tooling as they finalize their changes. 

Critique : This is the internal web-based code review system at Google [59]. After a developer changes code in Cider, they create a change with the modifications. Before sending the change to other developers for review, automated tools and regression tests run on the changed version of the code to help the owner with findings 

and suggested fixes by showing notifications on relevant parts of the code, or the entire change itself. 

TAP : The Testing Automation Platform (TAP) is the continuous in-tegration system at Google that runs unit-tests [48, 49]. For a change, TAP finds all tests that depend on the change in the monorepo and runs them to identify potential regressions before the change can be submitted. An example TAP test failure finding is shown in Critique in Figure 1. Developers typically start coding in Cider, as they get ready to finish their modifications, they create a change and run analyses in Critique, at which time TAP may uncover failing tests due to the changes. Once notified of failures, developers then investigate and attempt to fix the failing tests by modifying their change or the tests themselves in Cider, manually or using assistive tooling. We conducted an analysis of code changes submitted across Google within a 30-day period during the month of September-2025 to understand developer behavior on failing tests. We investigated 

fix attempt latency , the wall clock time between TAP reporting test failures on a version of the change and a developer making any additional edits and moving the change to the following version, summarized in Figure 2. Fix attempt latency is the opportunity window to help devel-opers with test failures, either by providing root cause analysis information or suggesting a potential fix, before they attempt to keep working on the change to fix the tests themselves, and it is 6.72 minutes at p25, and 27 .48 minutes at p50. 

## 3 Automated Program Repair With FlowAgent 

With the recent advances in AI, autonomous AI coding agents have shown great success on automated program repair (APR). To help developers in program repair, we propose FlowAgent , an Catching Developers in the Flow: Low-Latency Agentic Program Repair at Google Scale 0 20 40 60 80 100 

> Percentile
> 10 0
> 10 1
> 10 2
> 10 3
> 10 4
> Fix Attempt Latency (minutes)
> p10: 2.37m p25: 6.72m p50: 27.48m

Figure 2: Fix attempt latency distribution. 

autonomous agent integrated into Google’s developer tooling to automatically debug and repair pre-submit outer-loop test failures. Although FlowAgent and the tools it is integrated with are in-ternal to Google, the logic and flow of FlowAgent can be replicated using standard developer tooling available in the industry. The high level architecture of FlowAgent is shown in Figure 3. After a change is created and test execution is triggered in Critique, 

FlowAgent listens to TAP notifications on test failures. Upon failure, without developer involvement, it analyzes the change, checks if it passes supported filters, runs an AI-agent to fix the code, checks if the fix passes safety filters, and finally publishes its fix to Critique for developers to preview and apply either in Critique or Cider. 

## 3.1 Pre-Execution Filters 

FlowAgent ignores certain changes with failure by using pre-execution filters to avoid nonviable or unnecessary fix attempts, and developer confusion due to unrelated or low quality fix suggestions. These filters, listed below, check characteristics of the change or the failing tests, and are created based on institutional knowledge, manual evaluations and observations on a set of failures, and de-veloper feedback in production. Build failure Failure is due to build, not tests. Already failing Tests already failing in the repository are skipped. Flaky Failing known flaky tests [11, 50, 86], those that pass and fail at the same code version without changes, are skipped. Automated Failing tests on changes created by automated tools are skipped. Stale Failing tests on changes that the developer al-ready modified are skipped. Unsupported files Failing tests that involve certain file types, e.g. images and binary files, are skipped. Too many files Failing tests on changes with more than 100 files are skipped. Too many lines Failing tests on changes with more than 1000 lines are skipped If a test failure on a change passes all filters, FlowAgent is trig-gered. 

## 3.2 Agentic Repair 

Once a test failure passes the pre-execution filters, the FlowAgent 

hybrid system with predefined and fully agentic steps running in a sandbox, shown in Figure 3, is triggered with the setup parameters: 

• LLM = Internal version of Gemini 2.5 Pro [10] fine-tuned on internal Google code and data [12, 46], 

• 𝑡𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑢𝑟𝑒 = 0.1 so that agent actions are mostly deter-ministic for easy debugging and reproducibility, 

• 𝑡𝑜𝑝 𝑝 = 0.95 so that there is room for creativity while keep-ing out extremely unlikely outcomes. First, the orchestrator initiates the agent by reading test logs and reading change information, including its description, the list of modified files and the modifications on them in diff [21, 69] format. These pieces of information are then passed to a ReAct-style [79] generate-and-validate loop using the prompt shown in Listing 4a, where it can iteratively refine its fix based on build and test feedback, with: 

• Access to tools, including reading/editing/deleting files, searching code, building code, reading build status, reading build logs, executing tests, reading test status and reading test logs, 

• A maximum of 100 tool calls, to avoid excessive runtime and tool calling, 

• A maximum runtime of 30 minutes, in line with fix attempt latency discussed in Section 2.2 to avoid running for too long and to catch developers in their coding flow. If the loop finishes successfully and produces a fix diff, we con-duct a final validation step, either by confirming that the agent executed the tests in its last validation cycle, or by executing the tests and checking the result again. This additional validation is necessary, as LLMs are known to hallucinate, and without final deterministic validation, there is a risk of showing a potentially invalid fix to developers. If the verification is successful, we summarize the failure root cause and the fix by making a single call to the LLM and passing the transcript of the entire trajectory of the generate-and-validate loop above, with the prompt shown in Listing 4b. Finally, the suggested fix and its summary is passed to post-execution filters. 

## 3.3 Post-Execution Filters 

FlowAgent uses post-execution filters, listed below, to avoid post-ing fix suggestions to developers if the fix will not be useful. Stale If the developer modified the change while the agent was processing the failing version, the agent’s fix is obsolete. Submitted If the developer already submitted the change, the agent’s fix is obsolete. Once the fix passes these filters, it is ready to be displayed to developers. 

## 3.4 Showing Fixes to Developers 

Developers have varying preferences on the environment where they tend to preview and apply fixes. Some developers prefer using Celal Ziftci, Spencer Greene, Ray Liu, Livio Dalloro, and Lorenzo Dini TAP test failure pub/sub queue 

## Critique 

developer 

## Pre execution filters 

## Post execution filters 

## Cider 

fix Orchestrator Read test-logs Read change-info React-loop Verify-tests-pass Summarize-fix 

## FlowAgent 

Figure 3: System overview of automatically repairing programs with FlowAgent .

Critique, as the fixes are posted there first, while others prefer going back to the Cider IDE, as they are more used to making changes there. To maximize developer adoption, FlowAgent is integrated into both Critique and Cider. 

FlowAgent fixes are displayed to developers in Critique as part of the TAP test failure notification, shown in Figure 1, instead of an additional finding, to help developers associate the fix to the failure, and to avoid overwhelming them with too many findings posted on their change, as there are hundreds of analyses executed for each change and several findings may be displayed. Shown in Figure 5, the fix contains a summary of the root cause of the failure for developers to first understand if the diagnosis is correct, before viewing and deciding to apply the suggested fix. Additionally, we provide a link to preview the fix in the Cider IDE, and a button to preview and apply it inside Critique. Developers can click the button to preview the fix in Critique, as shown in Figure 6, and apply it in place. For more complex fixes that span several lines or files, or if they want to perform further manual edits, developers may choose to preview and apply the fix in the Cider IDE, as shown in Figure 7. 

## 4 Evaluation and Discussion 

In this section, we discuss how we evaluate our system, describe our case studies, and report the results of our interviews on the usability of our system. 

## 4.1 Manual Evaluation 

To evaluate the effectiveness of FlowAgent , we first conducted a case study where we ran FlowAgent on 195 randomly selected TAP test failures from 37 distinct teams across Google, summarized in Table 1. We asked 3 expert developers with at least five years of software development experience each to assess the suggested fixes, similar to shown in Figure 6, and report whether the fix was appropriate for the intent of the change and the failure. We then held a meeting to go over their reports and align on any disagreements, to obtain final agreement on the assessment for each fix. Based on the experts’ reporting, FlowAgent was successful in suggesting correct fixes in 131 of the failures, resulting in a 67 .18% success rate. For the remaining 64 cases, the fixes were either in-correct or not exactly correct, discussed below with examples. 

Table 1: Statistics about the manual evaluations. 

# teams that owned the TAP failures evaluated 37 # developers that conducted evaluations 3# failures evaluated 195 # accurate fixes on the failures evaluated 131 (67 .18%) 

Table 2: Statistics about FlowAgent executions and usage across Critique and Cider. 

# changes with failing tests 2,567 ,829 # changes dropped by pre-execution filters 1,785 ,955 # changes FlowAgent attempted to fix 781 ,874 ( ↘30 .45%) # changes FlowAgent obtained a fix 421 ,818 ( ↘53 .95%) # changes dropped by post-execution filters 126 ,310 # changes FlowAgent posted a fix to 295 ,508 ( ↘70 .06%) # changes developers previewed a fix 65 ,069 ( ↘22 .02%) # changes developers applied a fix 28 ,554 ( ↘43 .88%) # changes with a fix previewed in Critique 55 ,029 # changes with a fix applied in Critique 20 ,826 (37 .84%) # changes with a fix previewed in Cider 21 ,279 # changes with a fix applied in Cider 12 ,702 (59 .69%) 

## 4.2 Production Adoption & User Behavior 

After the manual evaluation, we launched FlowAgent to automati-cally run on all changes with TAP test failures, 2 ,567 ,829 in total, and display suggested fixes across Google’s code repository, start-ing October 2025 continuing to date, with detailed statistics listed in Table 2. 

4.2.1 System Trigger. Our system triggered on 2 ,567 ,829 changes with failing tests. 1 ,785 ,955 were skipped by pre-execution filters. A significant subset of the changes get skipped at this stage, as FlowAgent targets human-authored, viable fix attempts. This points to future improvement opportunities to attempt fixing a wider set of code changes, including non-human authored, and larger changes. 

4.2.2 Fix Attempts. Summarized in Table 3, FlowAgent attempted to fix 781 ,874 changes authored by 36 ,479 distinct developers, there were a mean of 10 .57 and median of 6 files per change, there were Catching Developers in the Flow: Low-Latency Agentic Program Repair at Google Scale 

The following change has failing pre-submit tests. The change information is provided below: === Change description === {change_description} === Change diff === {change_diff} Your task is to analyze the provided error logs from failing tests (paying close attention to +/- diffs indicating discrepancies), and the content of the relevant test file(s). Based on this analysis, you must output only a list of specific modifications required to fix the failing tests, along with their target file names. Your Analysis Steps (Internal Process): - Identify Test Failures & Discrepancies: Parse the error logs to pinpoint failing tests, error messages, stack traces. Crucially, analyze any + (expected) / - (actual) diffs within the logs, as these often directly indicate necessary corrections in test expectations or data. - Contextualize with Code: Analyze the test files (present in the error logs) to understand the structure, setup, assertions, and logic of the failing test(s) and related code. - Determine Required Modifications: Synthesize all information to identify the exact changes needed. This might involve updating expected values in tests based on log diffs. Do not add any comments or whitespaces. Your Output: - Your output must consist exclusively of the modification instructions and target files in diff format. - Do not include any explanations, analysis summary, greetings, apologies, or conversational text. Fix the following tests that produced errors: === Test name: {test_name} === {test_error} 

> (a) The system prompt template used in the ReAct agent loop.

You are an expert software engineer. You are given a transcript of an AI agent’s thoughts and actions to repair a test failure. Please provide a concise summary of what caused the test failure and the steps taken by the agent to repair the failure. Try your best to summarize the steps taken by the agent to fix the test. Focus on the specific actions taken and the thought process behind them. Do not simply copy the transcript of repair steps. When possible it’s best to include artifacts like file names, method headers, variables, etc. The resulting synopsis should be at most 5 sentences and suitable for a user interface, but ideally it can be one or two. If appropriate, presenting the synopsis in bullet points can be helpful. It is imperative that the summary follows HTML formatting, so make sure to use HTML as your only formatting style. Do not use any other formatting. The summary should be as compact as possible, this means the HTML should be written in a single line. === TRANSCRIPT === {agent_transcript} 

> (b) The prompt template to summarize the failure root cause and the suggested fix.

Listing 4: Prompts used by FlowAgent .Celal Ziftci, Spencer Greene, Ray Liu, Livio Dalloro, and Lorenzo Dini 

Figure 5: FlowAgent finding surfaced in Critique, with a root cause summary, and a link to Cider. 

Figure 6: FlowAgent suggested fix displayed in Critique. 

Figure 7: FlowAgent suggested fix displayed in Cider. Table 3: Statistics about code changes FlowAgent attempted to fix. 

# changes FlowAgent attempted to fix 781 ,874 # distinct authors of those changes 36 ,479 mean # files per change 10 .57 median # files per change 6# distinct file extensions (e.g. .py ) across changes 917 mean # failing tests per change 16 .49 median # failing tests per change 2mean # tool calls per FlowAgent execution 21 .37 mean # tokens used per FlowAgent execution 424 ,149 total # tokens used by FlowAgent to date 643 billion 917 distinct file extensions across all changes, there were a mean of 16 .49 and median of 2 failing tests per change. 0 20 40 60 80 100 

> Percentile
> 0510 15 20 25 30
> Execution Latency (minutes)
> p10: 4.78m p50: 9.85m p90: 25.83m

Figure 8: FlowAgent execution latency. 

FlowAgent made a mean of 21 .37 tool calls, used a mean of 424 ,149 tokens in each of its executions, and a total of 643 billion tokens to date. Shown in Figure 8, from TAP failure notification to obtaining a successful fix, it took FlowAgent 9.85 minutes in the median (p50), and 25 .83 minutes in the 90th percentile (p90) wall clock time, within the median fix attempt latency of 27 .48 minutes discussed in Section 2.2. 

FlowAgent successfully generated a suggested fix for 421 ,818 changes. Unsuccessful attempts are due to the limits placed on the agent execution to avoid running for too long, as users may get notified of the failing tests and attempt to fix them manually themselves. Based on our internal experiments, we predict that a significant subset of the failed attempts at this stage may successfully produce fixes with improved language models released after our study. 

4.2.3 Successful but Dropped Fix Suggestions. 126 ,310 successful fixes were dropped by post-execution filters, as the developers modified or submitted their changes already, and the agent’s fixes were obsolete. Some of the fixes may still be relevant even though the developer modified the change, as they may have modified unrelated files. However, such fixes may confuse developers, and potentially cause conflicts with the developer’s changes. As a result, they are dropped entirely by post-execution filters. Even though FlowAgent is optimized for low latency, a non-negligible share of successful fixes are still dropped by the post-execution filters, pointing to a need for further latency improve-ments to catch developers in their change modification flows. 

4.2.4 Suggested Fixes. After post-execution filters, 295 ,508 fixes were posted to Critique. Across Critique and Cider, 65 ,069 fixes were previewed and 28 ,554 were accepted by developers. Based on our manual analysis of a subset of previewed but not applied fixes of failing tests that have later been manually fixed by developers, we observe that there are several reasons why develop-ers do not apply fixes, with examples shown in Figure 9. First, even though the fix helps the tests pass, sometimes it is irrelevant or wrong, as shown in Figure 9a and 9b. Such fixes should not be suggested to developers, as they undermine trust in the long Catching Developers in the Flow: Low-Latency Agentic Program Repair at Google Scale   

> (a) @Ignore added to test
> (b) Assertion swallowed by try/catch block
> (c) Fix is close but not exact, should assert " == 3 ", not " > 2 "

Figure 9: Examples of suggested fixes not applied by users. 

run, and they should instead be verified with an additional step in our agent architecture, left as future work based on our study. Second, there are cases where the fix is correct, but not exactly what the developer wants, as shown in Figure 9c. In these cases, developers most likely understand where to fix the test as they preview the suggested fix, but then proceed to fix it themselves. Then, there are cases where FlowAgent suggested reverting the modifications in the change, essentially undoing developer’s mod-ification intent. Such suggestions should not be suggested to de-velopers and have also been noted as future improvements to be addressed in the agent. Finally, there are cases when the fix was correct, but developers still typed it manually themselves. We predict that those developers did not realize they could apply the fix in Critique, and are using an editor other than Cider, where the link posted in our findings is not applicable, or various other reasons, some of which are discussed in Section 4.3. 

4.2.5 Developer Preferences on Applying Fixes. In Critique, 55 ,029 fixes were previewed and 20 ,826 fixes were applied, while in Cider, 21 ,279 fixes were previewed and 12 ,702 applied. Developers previewed some suggested fixes both in Critique and in Cider. Based on user interviews discussed in Section 4.3, developers sometimes preview a fix in Critique, but then move to Cider to apply it to make further edits on it afterwards. Additionally, FlowAgent may suggest multiple fixes for a single change, as developers work through their change to satisfaction, and tests may fail on several versions of the change. This is the reason that the sum of the number of changes with a fix applied in Critique and Cider is greater than the number of changes developers applied a fix in Table 2. The 𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑖𝑒𝑤𝑒𝑑 rate was 37 .84% in Critique, while it was 59 .69% in Cider. Developers seem to prefer viewing and applying fixes in Cider, compared to Critique. We propose that this is due to several factors, including developers’ tendency to make further modifications on the suggested fixes, and developers being used to viewing diffs in the IDE, as supported by user interviews discussed in the next section. 

## 4.3 User Interviews 

We conducted 45 minute in-person interviews with 9 developers from 9 different groups that have been working at Google for at least 6 months, that previewed and/or applied suggested fixes either in Critique or in Cider, with excerpts discussed below. In this section, we summarize key learnings based on the participants’ responses. 

4.3.1 Perceptions on FlowAgent . First, we asked participants about their perception on automatically receiving fix suggestions from 

FlowAgent without triggering it themselves. Participants P-6 and 

P-7 reported enjoying the integration of FlowAgent into existing development workflows they are accustomed to. Then, we asked participants their prediction on how FlowAgent 

works, and they all reported that it is most likely an AI-based product, as the fix suggestions it provides are not likely to come from a non-AI tool, and its name suggests it uses AI. As a follow up, we asked them if this creates bias in their ex-pectations of FlowAgent ’s suggested fixes. As P-1 summarized it, participants reported that it does not matter where the suggestion comes from as long as it is relevant and accurate. 

> [P-7]: [...] I go to some other tasks in the mean time and then this new thing I’ve never seen before called FlowAgent just fixes the test for me! [P-6]: This [workflow] is really great. It’s in-line with a lot of Critique workflows, so it’s following the same pattern to not have to think what type of review it is because the approach is always the same. [P-1]: I don’t care what, who, or where the suggestion comes from, just that it is relevant and accurate.

4.3.2 Root Cause Summaries in Findings. About the root cause summaries FlowAgent findings provide, participants P-4 , P-5 and 

P-6 reported easily understanding the failure reason by reading the root cause analysis summary in the finding. 

> [P-4]: It explains the issue pretty clearly. Thanks for building this! Can definitely see myself using this going forward :) [P-5]: It pulled out the conclusion and put it at the top of the message, [...] know relatively fast glance what the error was; if this didn’t exist, it would have taken longer to dig through what the actual error was. [P-6]: This information is helpful; usually have to go into test logs, but now it’s putting all the information in front, saves time; wouldn’t have to go into logs, filter by error, don’t need to scan all of that, have summarized info; can skip step of finding the issue.

4.3.3 Previewed and Applied Fixes. Several participants, P-1 , P-7 ,

P-8 , reported finding FlowAgent fixes very useful, especially when the fix is on repetitive and tedious changes such as using mocks, and on refactoring related changes. Celal Ziftci, Spencer Greene, Ray Liu, Livio Dalloro, and Lorenzo Dini 

> [P-7]: Did you guys implement FlowAgent on Critique? This thing is amazing! It fixed [change]. I updated some code, then the test failed cause it was using a bunch of mocks. I hate updating these types of tests. [P-1]: The experience of FlowAgent fixing complex tests (especially those involving many mocks) was one of my biggest wow moments for LLM agents. [P-8]: Thanks for developing and maintaining a tool which I find very promising and useful for developer velocity! Even my very first experience makes me excited about offloading the grungy task of looking at multiple documentation and past solved bugs to find easy parameter changes to fix tests.

4.3.4 Previewed but Not Applied Fixes. Based on telemetry, we observed that, in some cases, developers previewed fixes but did not apply them, and we asked them about the reasons behind these. Participants P-1 , P-2 and P-3 reported that FlowAgent some-times suggested irrelevant or wrong fixes. 

> [P-1]: The fix was inaccurate, I didn’t want to sort the list. [P-2]: [...] it suggested to add something that wasn’t needed, so it wasn’t fixing anything. [P-3]: It was inaccurate, I didn’t think the backslash should be removed.

Participants P-2 and P-3 reported that FlowAgent findings some-times arrive too late, by which point they have initiated their own manual fix. If the finding had come on time, they would have found it useful. 

> [P-2]: To be honest, I was frustrated by the broken [...] all day. I’ve manually debugged the problem, and it was cumbersome to find the root cause across so many different layers. I can confirm that your agent’s output is correct, and it would have saved me a lot of time if I had seen it before manually digging through the logs. [P-3]: The [finding] did successfully identify the issue! Or at least, one of the issues. It definitely would have helped.

Several developers also reported that they sometimes preview the suggested fix, but instead of applying it in Critique or Cider, they type the fix in the IDE themselves manually, as the proposed fix does not exactly conform to their coding style, and they prefer a slightly different edit, similar to shown in Figure 9. Participant P-6 reported that they applied the fix manually to save time and avoid issues that may stem from the Critique work-flow conflicting with changes they wanted to make in their IDE. 

> [P-6]: I have a second monitor, or third monitor depending on where I am working [...], but my Cider is already open there. So instead of going to click Show Fix, apply the fix, [...], I just move my mouse over [...] and amend my code, in case I get into a [conflict] or something weird.

Finally, participant P-9 reported that even if they fix the failures themselves, having an agent independently provide feedback is useful, as the agent has its own context on the intent of the change and the resulting failure. 

> [P-9]: I like having a separate agent in Critique to also chime in, as its context is fresh.

Even though there are clear instructions in its system prompt, 

FlowAgent sometimes suggests reverting the change or comment-ing out the failing tests, as shown in Figure 9. Several developers reported getting frustrated about such fix suggestions, and some made humorous statements about FlowAgent both during our inter-views and in internal forums. As this is a critical user trust problem, we are currently working on addressing it by adding an additional step into FlowAgent in Figure 3 to verify that the suggested fix is not removing tests or reverting the developer’s change, before sending the suggestion to the developer. 

4.3.5 Usability Feedback. During the interviews, several partici-pants asked for a feature to have an estimate of the remaining time until FlowAgent finishes, so that they can decide whether to wait for its fix suggestion or to fix the failures themselves. 

> [P-4]: [...] if there’s an indicator that it’s running, I could say, "okay, it’s trying to fix some things", I could maybe go do something else and come back to this.

Although we could not add the feature immediately, as it is not supported in Critique, we observe that developers are adapting to working with AI agents to take decisions on their waiting behaviors [44, 68]. We are currently working on addressing this by adding additional mechanisms to notify users that FlowAgent is working on the failures on their change. 

## 5 Threats To Validity 

In this section, we discuss the threats to the validity of our work and case studies. 

Manual evaluation : Our manual evaluation was conducted by three experienced developers. However, these developers did not own the production or test code of the failing tests, and may have made mistakes in their reporting of the accuracy of FlowAgent 

fixes. Additionally, the failures used in this evaluation were randomly chosen across Google, and may not be representative of all failures. 

Filters : The pre-execution filters are implemented based on early feedback from a small group of FlowAgent users. As a significant set of changes are skipped due to these filters, our evaluation results may not generalize to the changes with such characteristics. 

Developer bias : FlowAgent suggests fixes for all eligible code changes across Google. However, developers have varying posi-tive/negative judgments on the use of AI and AI assistance in their development journeys. As we do not control for such variables in our evaluation of the previews and applies of the fixes, this may have introduced a selection bias, and biased the accuracy and validity of our results. Catching Developers in the Flow: Low-Latency Agentic Program Repair at Google Scale 

Additionally, the interviews were conducted with code change authors that volunteered to give feedback. This constitutes a self-selected group, users who did not participate in our surveys and interviews might have different perspectives that could alter the qualitative insights gained from those sessions. 

Developer infrastructure : Our case study was conducted within the specific context of Google’s development environment and infrastructure. Although all internal tools have corresponding prod-ucts in the industry, our findings may not be generalizable to other organizational settings. 

LLM : Our study uses an internal version of Gemini 2.5 Pro. Al-though popular large LLMs have been shown to perform well on tasks such as coding, the generalizability of our results to other LLMs may be limited. Additionally, FlowAgent relies on a specific prompt template for Gemini. Small changes in the prompt wording, structure, or order-ing of instructions could potentially lead to different or degraded LLM performance. The robustness of the prompt engineering to minor variations or future LLM updates is a potential threat to the generalizability of our findings. 

Tests : As they are implemented by developers, the quality and detail of tests across different groups and systems at Google may vary significantly, and this may have influenced the accuracy of 

FlowAgent on different tests and the results of our case studies. 

## 6 Related Work 

Automated program repair (APR) [33] has received significant at-tention in literature, starting with non-machine learning based approaches, then machine learning based approaches, later moving on to LLM based techniques, and most recently LLM agent based methods. 

Non-machine learning based APR : Several techniques approach APR as a search problem with manually described mutation rules and repair patterns [31, 32, 37], or semi-automatic transformation rules derived from human implemented patches [1, 3, 29]. Some approaches use symbolic constraints to extract fixes [28, 47, 53, 74], while others use static analysis to identify and then repair bugs [22, 39, 64], and some methods replace faulty code with similar but correct code from the same codebase [75]. Beyond functional repairs, several approaches target different kinds of issues, including syntax errors [17, 60, 66], performance issues [83], security vulnerabilities [19], type errors [8], and build breakages [62]. 

Machine learning based APR : Early work uses machine learning techniques to rank and choose fixes from among candidates [40]. Recent work proposes using machine learning to generate fixes, including neural machine translation models to map faulty code to fixed code [7, 18, 41, 63], tree transformation prediction mod-els [36, 85], neural models for more specific bug types [65], and approaches that train models for specific repairs [80, 81]. SelfAPR [80] trains a model using training samples obtained by perturbing a previous version of the program being repaired, enforcing the neural model to capture project specific knowledge. 

LLM-based APR : Recently, instead of training task-specific models, use of general purpose LLMs has been more common. AlphaRepair [72] is a zero-shot technique that framed APR as an in-filling task, without requiring any additional training data. FitRepair [71] improves on AlphaRepair by incorporating the plastic surgery hypothesis [2], suggesting that the code needed to fix a bug typically exists within the same codebase already. Several techniques use a one-shot prompt technique, where a single prompt is sent to the model with problem descriptions [23, 71] or error messages [26], and the model responds with the proposed code fix. More recent techniques use iterative approaches, where the LLM is prompted several times and the feedback obtained from the previous repair attempts are passed to the subsequent iterations [20, 27, 73, 82]. ChatRepair [73] is a dialogue based technique that works through a conversation with the engineer as it incrementally collects more information, proposes potential patches and generates better patches over time to locate and repair the bug. ITER [82] improves partial patches until they become plausible and correct. Agentless [70] employs generated tests and a pre-defined three phase repair pipeline comprising of localization, repair and valida-tion, achieving state-of-the-art performance at a remarkably low cost, outperforming previous open-source techniques. 

Agent-based APR : Most recently, new agentic approaches have emerged, where LLMs autonomously plan and perform tasks nec-essary to repair the program making use of tools provided to them. FixAgent [34] uses specialized LLM agents ("Tester" and "De-bugger") through prompt chaining for end-to-end fault localization and repair. LLM4FL [56] uses two LLM agents to iteratively analyze code to rank suspicious methods. SWE-Agent [76] implements a ReAct-style [79] open-ended loop with access to a set of APIs as tools to provide terminal access. RepairAgent [4] builds upon prior work on augmenting LLMs with tools to generate and execute code [13] invoked via APIs [61], [55] and presents a state machine constrained agent, disallowing certain tool use sequences, unlike SWE-Agent. AutoCodeRover [84] is an agent leveraging program metadata including class and method definitions. SpecRover [58] builds upon AutoCodeRover to introduce a natural-language specification for expected behavior and incorporates an agent that reviews potential patches to guide the repair agent. CodeR [6] proposes a different architecture for APR, with a "manager" agent that coordinates sub-tasks described as a task graph. MarsCode Agent [38] proposes a dynamic, iterative APR ap-proach with a generate-and-validate pipeline using multiple sub-agents. OpenHands [67] (previously named OpenDevin) is an open-source agent platform inspired by the Devin software engineering agent [9], and provides an agentic foundation to build solutions for software engineering and other domains. Google’s Passerine [57] is a ReAct-style [79] agent employing tools including a test-suite-based metric calculator for verification, is deployed to production use, and is reported to be three times more Celal Ziftci, Spencer Greene, Ray Liu, Livio Dalloro, and Lorenzo Dini 

successful on fixing machine generated bugs. Passerine has recently been improved with techniques to filter out patches unlikely to be accepted by humans [5]. Meta’s Engineering Agent [43] also implements a ReAct-style [79] loop to automatically fix failing unit-tests using an iterative loop to provide feedback on potential patches using validation and verification tools. Extending this work, Meta’s MetaMateCR [42] provides AI-assisted fixes for reviewer comments. Our work is an APR technique combining LLM-based and agent-based approaches discussed above. However, these prior work are focused on post-submit APR, i.e. repairs are performed offline in existing code without stringent low latency requirements. To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first one that triggers APR automatically upon failures in the pre-submit developer workflow, with latency requirements critical to the developer experience, and that reports outcomes and learnings in industrial scale for the pre-submit workflow respectively. 

Benchmarks for APR : The APR community created several public and private benchmarks to assess the quality of APR solutions. HumanEvalFix [52] covers translated benchmarks for three soft-ware engineering downstream tasks, including program repair. SWE-Bench [24] is a benchmark sourced from GitHub issues across 12 popular open source projects, containing 2294 Python bugs and repairs. It also offers a smaller version, SWE-Bench-Lite [25], with 300 bug/fix pairs. SWE-Bench Verified [24] is a human annotated subset of SWE-Bench deemed "solvable" and is divided into “easy” and a “hard” subsets. SWE-Bench has emerged as the standard evaluation benchmark for many APR techniques. DebugEval [78] defines several software engineering tasks, in-cluding code repair, to evaluate LLMs’ capabilities across languages. DebugBench [45] is a large dataset of LeetCode [35] coding problems with artificially injected bugs to compare LLMs on APR. Recently, to address the complexity of creating benchmarks and facilitate comprehensive evaluations of APR methods, SWE-smith [77] has been proposed as a pipeline to generate software engi-neering tasks at scale, to support the automatic synthesis of code changes that break existing tests, and to drive the development of more robust and scalable APR solutions. Another well-known benchmark is SWE-Lancer [51], which consists of over 1400 freelance software engineering tasks. Most recently, Google’s Passerine [57] uses an internal bench-mark similar to SWE-Bench, while Meta’s Engineering Agent [43] uses an internal machine generated tasks benchmark. Our work has an internal benchmark comprised of real-world program failures at Google, discussed in Section 4. We are not able to publicly release our benchmark dataset due to the constraints discussed in Section 8. 

## 7 Conclusion 

In this paper, we presented FlowAgent , an autonomous AI coding agent deployed at Google to automatically debug and repair test failures during the pre-submit outer-loop workflow. By integrating directly with Google’s internal tools, Critique and Cider, FlowAgent 

provides suggested fixes before developers switch context from their change modification flow. To ensure high-quality suggestions with low latency, the system employs pre-execution and post-execution filters, as well as an iterative generate-and-validate loop powered by an LLM. Our evaluation demonstrates the efficacy and practical viability of this approach at an industrial scale. In a manual evaluation by 3 expert developers, FlowAgent successfully suggested accurate fixes for 67 .18% of evaluated test failures. Following its production deployment on October 2025, the system suggested 295 ,508 fixes, with developers accepting and applying 28 ,554 of the suggestions. Qualitative feedback from user interviews provides insights into adoption and user behaviors. Developers reported time savings and reduced frustration when diagnosing and fixing complex test fail-ures. Challenges also remain, such as optimizing execution latency to catch developers before they context-switch, and mitigating unhelpful fix suggestions like commenting out tests. Our findings underscore the potential of integrating LLM-based autonomous agents into latency critical industrial developer work-flows for APR. 

## 8 Future Work 

We observed several improvement opportunities during our case studies of FlowAgent .First, we plan to improve FlowAgent ’s test deletion and code revert behaviors to avoid developer frustration. Second, we plan to improve FlowAgent ’s latency and success to provide more fixes using more recent language models. Additionally, we plan to add a feature to report to developers when FlowAgent is working on fixing the failing tests on their changes, so that they can wait for it to finish. Finally, we plan to extend FlowAgent to AI-authored changes as well, as there is a general shift in the industry towards more AI-generated code changes. 

## Data Availability Statement 

The data that support the findings of this study are proprietary to Google and cannot be made publicly available. Due to strict confidentiality policies, commercial sensitivity, and non-disclosure agreements, we are unable to provide a public reproduction package or dataset. 

## Acknowledgments 

We thank Gaurav Johari for his work on surveying the APR domain at Google, Adrian Berding, Ahmed Omran, Allen Edwards, Assaf Raman, Bernhard Konrad, Chris Lewis, Daotong(Daniel) Dai, Gau-rav Johari, James Wilson, Jeyavaishnavi Muralikumar, John Penix, Mariana Stariolo, Nic Cornejo, Peter Spragins, Rob Dryke, Rose Rodrigues, Sara Toth, Sruthi Santhosh Nair, Will Findley, Yang Liu, Yurun Shen for their work on FlowAgent , and Elaine Thai, Laurie Pham, Maria Arguello, Ryan McGarry for their help on conducting user interviews on FlowAgent usage. Google Gemini [16] was utilized to generate sections of this work, specifically several tables in Latex [30] format, and several graphs inside Google Colab [15]. Catching Developers in the Flow: Low-Latency Agentic Program Repair at Google Scale 

## References 

[1] Johannes Bader, Andrew Scott, Michael Pradel, and Satish Chandra. 2019. Getafix: Learning to fix bugs automatically. Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages 3, OOPSLA (2019), 1–27. doi:10.1145/3360585 [2] Earl T Barr, Yuriy Brun, Premkumar Devanbu, Mark Harman, and Federica Sarro. 2014. The plastic surgery hypothesis. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering . 306– 317. doi:10.1145/2635868.2635898 [3] Rohan Bavishi, Hiroaki Yoshida, and Mukul R Prasad. 2019. Phoenix: Automated data-driven synthesis of repairs for static analysis violations. In Proceedings of the 2019 27th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering . 613–624. doi:10.1145/ 3338906.3338952 [4] Islem Bouzenia, Premkumar Devanbu, and Michael Pradel. 2024. RepairAgent: An autonomous, LLM-based agent for program repair. In Proceedings of the 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) .doi:10.1109/ICSE55347.2025.00157 [5] José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, Sherry Shi, Renyao Wei, Grant Uy, Runxiang Cheng, Chin-Jung Liu, Shiying Pan, Satish Chandra, and Pat Rondon. 2025. Abstain and Validate: A Dual-LLM Policy for Reducing Noise in Agentic Program Repair. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 48th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice (ICSE-SEIP ’26) . 118–129. doi:10. 1145/3786583.3786858 [6] Dong Chen, Shaoxin Lin, Muhan Zeng, Daoguang Zan, Jian-Gang Wang, Anton Cheshkov, Jun Sun, Hao Yu, Guoliang Dong, Artem Aliev, et al. 2024. CodeR: Issue resolving with multi-agent and task graphs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.01304 

(2024). doi:10.48550/arXiv.2406.01304 [7] Zimin Chen, Steve Kommrusch, Michele Tufano, Louis-Noël Pouchet, Denys Poshyvanyk, and Martin Monperrus. 2019. Sequencer: Sequence-to-sequence learning for end-to-end program repair. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineer-ing 47, 9 (2019), 1943–1959. doi:10.1109/TSE.2019.2940179 [8] Yiu Wai Chow, Luca Di Grazia, and Michael Pradel. 2024. PyTy: Repairing static type errors in Python. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software Engineering . 1–13. doi:10.1145/3597503.3639184 [9] Cognition. 2024. Introducing Devin, the first AI software engineer. https: //www.cognition.ai/blog/introducing-devin [10] Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, Ice Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit Dhillon, Marcel Blistein, Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen, et al. 2025. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with advanced reasoning, multi-modality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.06261 (2025). doi:10.48550/arXiv.2507.06261 [11] Martin Fowler. 2011. Eradicating Non-Determinism in Tests . https://martinfowler. com/articles/nonDeterminism.html [Online; Accessed 2026-03-25]. [12] Alexander Frömmgen, Jacob Austin, Peter Choy, Nimesh Ghelani, Lera Kharatyan, Gabriela Surita, Elena Khrapko, Pascal Lamblin, Pierre-Antoine Man-zagol, Marcus Revaj, et al. 2024. Resolving Code Review Comments with Machine Learning. In Proceedings of the 46th International Conference on Software Engi-neering: Software Engineering in Practice . 204–215. doi:10.1145/3639477.3639746 [13] Luyu Gao, Aman Madaan, Shuyan Zhou, Uri Alon, Pengfei Liu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. 2023. PAL: Program-aided Language Models. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning . 10764– 10799. doi:10.48550/arXiv.2211.10435 [14] Google Inc. 2026. Google Antigravity. https://antigravity.google. Online; Accessed 2026-03-25. [15] Google Inc. 2026. Google Colab. https://colab.research.google.com. Online; Accessed 2026-03-25. [16] Google Inc. 2026. Google Gemini: Google’s AI Assistant. https://gemini.google. com. Online; Accessed 2026-03-25. [17] Rahul Gupta, Aditya Kanade, and Shirish Shevade. 2019. Deep reinforcement learning for syntactic error repair in student programs. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence , Vol. 33. 930–937. doi:10.1609/aaai.v33i01. 3301930 [18] Rahul Gupta, Soham Pal, Aditya Kanade, and Shirish Shevade. 2017. Deepfix: Fixing common c language errors by deep learning. In Proceedings of the aaai conference on artificial intelligence , Vol. 31. doi:10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10742 [19] Jacob Harer, Onur Ozdemir, Tomo Lazovich, Christopher Reale, Rebecca Russell, Louis Kim, et al. 2018. Learning to repair software vulnerabilities with generative adversarial networks. Advances in neural information processing systems 31 (2018). doi:10.48550/arXiv.1805.07475 [20] Dániel Hidvégi, Kamyar Etemadi, S Bobadilla, and Martin Monperrus. 2024. Cigar: Cost-efficient program repair with LLMs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.06598 

(2024). doi:10.48550/arXiv.2402.06598 [21] James W. Hunt and M. Douglas McIlroy. 1976. An algorithm for differential file comparison . Technical Report Computing Science Technical Report 41. Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, NJ. http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~doug/diff.pdf [22] Naman Jain, Shubham Gandhi, Atharv Sonwane, Aditya Kanade, Nagarajan Natarajan, Suresh Parthasarathy, Sriram Rajamani, and Rahul Sharma. 2023. Staticfixer: From static analysis to static repair. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.12465 

(2023). doi:10.48550/arXiv.2307.12465 [23] Nan Jiang, Kevin Liu, Thibaud Lutellier, and Lin Tan. 2023. Impact of code language models on automated program repair. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) . IEEE, 1430–1442. doi:10.1109/ICSE48619.2023.00125 [24] Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R Narasimhan. 2024. SWE-bench: Can Language Models Resolve Real-world Github Issues?. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations . doi:10.48550/arXiv.2310.06770 [25] Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R Narasimhan. 2024. SWE-bench Lite. https://www.swebench. com/lite.html [Online; Accessed 2026-03-25]. [26] Harshit Joshi, José P Cambronero Sánchez, Sumit Gulwani, Vu Le, Gust Ver-bruggen, and Ivan Radicek. 2023. Repair is nearly generation: Multilingual program repair with LLMs. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence . 5131–5140. doi:10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25642 [27] Sungmin Kang, Bei Chen, Shin Yoo, and Jian-Guang Lou. 2023. Explainable automated debugging via large language model-driven scientific debugging. 

Empirical Software Engineering (2023). doi:10.1007/s10664-024-10594-x [28] Yalin Ke, Kathryn T Stolee, Claire Le Goues, and Yuriy Brun. 2015. Repairing programs with semantic code search (t). In 2015 30th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE) . IEEE, 295–306. doi:10.1109/ ASE.2015.60 [29] Dongsun Kim, Jaechang Nam, Jaewoo Song, and Sunghun Kim. 2013. Automatic patch generation learned from human-written patches. In 2013 35th international conference on software engineering (ICSE) . IEEE, 802–811. doi:10.1109/ICSE.2013. 6606626 [30] Leslie Lamport. 1994. LaTeX: A Document Preparation System (2nd ed.). Addison-Wesley. [31] Xuan Bach D Le, David Lo, and Claire Le Goues. 2016. History driven program repair. In 2016 IEEE 23rd international conference on software analysis, evolution, and reengineering (SANER) , Vol. 1. IEEE, 213–224. doi:10.1109/SANER.2016.76 [32] Claire Le Goues, ThanhVu Nguyen, Stephanie Forrest, and Westley Weimer. 2011. Genprog: A generic method for automatic software repair. Ieee transactions on software engineering 38, 1 (2011), 54–72. doi:10.1109/TSE.2011.104 [33] Claire Le Goues, Michael Pradel, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2019. Automated program repair. Commun. ACM 62, 12 (2019), 56–65. doi:10.1145/3318162 [34] Cheryl Lee, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Longji Yang, Jen-tse Huang, Zhouruixing Zhu, Lingming Zhang, and Michael R Lyu. 2025. Unidebugger: Hierarchical multi-agent framework for unified software debugging. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing . 18248–18277. doi:10.18653/v1/2025.emnlp-main.921 [35] LeetCode. 2026. LeetCode - LeetCode - The World’s Leading Online Programming Learning Platform. https://leetcode.com [Online; Accessed 2026-03-25]. [36] Yi Li, Shaohua Wang, and Tien N Nguyen. 2020. Dlfix: Context-based code transformation learning for automated program repair. In Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 42nd international conference on software engineering . 602–614. doi:10. 1145/3377811.3380345 [37] Kui Liu, Anil Koyuncu, Dongsun Kim, and Tegawendé F Bissyandé. 2019. TBar: Revisiting template-based automated program repair. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM SIGSOFT international symposium on software testing and analysis . 31–42. doi:10.1145/3293882.3330577 [38] Yizhou Liu, Pengfei Gao, Xinchen Wang, Jie Liu, Yexuan Shi, Zhao Zhang, and Chao Peng. 2024. Marscode agent: Ai-native automated bug fixing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.00899 (2024). doi:10.48550/arXiv.2409.00899 [39] Yu Liu, Sergey Mechtaev, Pavle Subotić, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2023. Pro-gram repair guided by datalog-defined static analysis. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering . 1216–1228. doi:10.1145/3611643.3616363 [40] Fan Long and Martin Rinard. 2016. Automatic patch generation by learning correct code. In Proceedings of the 43rd annual ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT symposium on principles of programming languages . 298–312. doi:10.1145/2837614.2837617 [41] Thibaud Lutellier, Hung Viet Pham, Lawrence Pang, Yitong Li, Moshi Wei, and Lin Tan. 2020. Coconut: combining context-aware neural translation models using ensemble for program repair. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGSOFT international symposium on software testing and analysis . 101–114. doi:10.1145/ 3395363.3397369 [42] Chandra Maddila, Negar Ghorbani, James Saindon, Parth Thakkar, Vijayaragha-van Murali, Rui Abreu, Jingyue Shen, Brian Zhou, Nachiappan Nagappan, and Peter C Rigby. 2026. AI-Assisted Fixes to Code Review Comments at Scale . As-sociation for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 439–449. https: //doi.org/10.1145/3803437.3805217 [43] Chandra Maddila, Adam Tait, Claire Chang, Daniel Cheng, Nauman Ahmad, Vijayaraghavan Murali, Marshall Roch, Arnaud Avondet, Aaron Meltzer, Victor Montalvao, et al. 2025. Agentic Program Repair from Test Failures at Scale: A Neuro-symbolic approach with static analysis and test execution feedback. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (2025). doi:10.1109/TSE.2026.3696849 Celal Ziftci, Spencer Greene, Ray Liu, Livio Dalloro, and Lorenzo Dini 

[44] David H. Maister. 1985. The Psychology of Waiting Lines. In The Service En-counter: Managing Employee/Customer Interaction in Service Businesses , John A. Czepiel, Michael R. Solomon, and Carol F. Surprenant (Eds.). Lexington Books, Lexington, MA, 113–123. [45] Yacine Majdoub and Eya Ben Charrada. 2024. Debugging with open-source large language models: An evaluation. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement .510–516. doi:10.1145/3674805.3690758 [46] Petros Maniatis and Daniel Tarlow. 2023. Large sequence models for software development activities . https://research.google/blog/large-sequence-models-for-software-development-activities [Online; Accessed 2026-03-25]. [47] Sergey Mechtaev, Jooyong Yi, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2016. Angelix: Scalable multiline program patch synthesis via symbolic analysis. In Proceedings of the 38th international conference on software engineering . 691–701. doi:10.1145/2884781. 2884807 [48] Atif Memon, Zebao Gao, Bao Nguyen, Sanjeev Dhanda, Eric Nickell, Rob Siem-borski, and John Micco. 2017. Taming Google-scale continuous testing. In 

2017 IEEE/ACM 39th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice Track (ICSE-SEIP) . IEEE, 233–242. doi:10.1109/ICSE-SEIP.2017.16 [49] J Micco. 2012. Tools for continuous integration at Google scale. https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=KH2_sB1A6lA. Google Tech Talk, Google Inc (2012). On-line; Accessed 2026-03-25. [50] John Micco. 2016. Flaky Tests at Google and How We Mitigate Them . https: //testing.googleblog.com/2016/05/flaky-tests-at-google-and-how-we.html [On-line; Accessed 2026-03-25]. [51] Samuel Miserendino, Michele Wang, Tejal Patwardhan, and Johannes Heidecke. 2025. SWE-Lancer: Can Frontier LLMs Earn $1 Million from Real-World Freelance Software Engineering? arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12115 (2025). doi:10.48550/ arXiv.2502.12115 [52] Niklas Muennighoff, Qian Liu, Armel Zebaze, Qinkai Zheng, Binyuan Hui, Terry Yue Zhuo, Swayam Singh, Xiangru Tang, Leandro Von Werra, and Shayne Longpre. 2023. Octopack: Instruction tuning code large language mod-els. In NeurIPS 2023 workshop on instruction tuning and instruction following .doi:10.48550/arXiv.2308.07124 [53] Hoang Duong Thien Nguyen, Dawei Qi, Abhik Roychoudhury, and Satish Chan-dra. 2013. Semfix: Program repair via semantic analysis. In 2013 35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) . IEEE, 772–781. doi:10.1109/ICSE.2013. 6606623 [54] Vincent Nguyen, Guilherme Herzog, José Cambronero, Marcus Revaj, Aditya Kini, Alexander Frömmgen, and Maxim Tabachnyk. 2025. Smart Paste: Automat-ically Fixing Copy/Paste for Google Developers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 48th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice (ICSE-SEIP) . doi:10.1145/3786583.3786859 [55] Shishir G Patil, Tianjun Zhang, Xin Wang, and Joseph E Gonzalez. 2023. Go-rilla: Large language model connected with massive APIs. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (2023). doi:10.52202/079017-4020 [56] Md Nakhla Rafi, Dong Jae Kim, Tse-Hsun Chen, and Shaowei Wang. 2024. A multi-agent approach to fault localization via graph-based retrieval and reflexion. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.13642 (2024). doi:10.48550/arXiv.2409.13642 [57] Pat Rondon, Renyao Wei, José Cambronero, Jürgen Cito, Aaron Sun, Siddhant Sanyam, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra. 2025. Evaluating agent-based program repair at Google. In Proceedings of the 47th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice Track . doi:10.1109/ICSE-SEIP66354.2025.00038 [58] Haifeng Ruan, Yuntong Zhang, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2024. SpecRover: Code intent extraction via LLMs. In Proceedings of the 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) . doi:10.1109/ICSE55347.2025.00080 [59] Caitlin Sadowski, Emma Söderberg, Luke Church, Michal Sipko, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2018. Modern code review: a case study at Google. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice . ACM, 181–190. doi:10.1145/3183519.3183525 [60] Georgios Sakkas, Madeline Endres, Philip J Guo, Westley Weimer, and Ranjit Jhala. 2022. Seq2parse: neurosymbolic parse error repair. Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages 6, OOPSLA2 (2022), 1180–1206. doi:10.1145/3563330 [61] Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke Zettlemoyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. 2023. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools. Advances in neural information processing systems 36 (2023), 68539–68551. doi:10.52202/ 075280-2997 [62] Daniel Tarlow, Subhodeep Moitra, Andrew Rice, Zimin Chen, Pierre-Antoine Manzagol, Charles Sutton, and Edward Aftandilian. 2020. Learning to fix build errors with graph2diff neural networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 42nd international conference on software engineering workshops . 19–20. doi:10.1145/ 3387940.3392181 [63] Michele Tufano, Jevgenija Pantiuchina, Cody Watson, Gabriele Bavota, and Denys Poshyvanyk. 2019. On learning meaningful code changes via neural machine translation. In 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) . IEEE, 25–36. doi:10.1109/ICSE.2019.00021 [64] Rijnard Van Tonder and Claire Le Goues. 2018. Static automated program repair for heap properties. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Software Engineering . 151–162. doi:10.1145/3180155.3180250 [65] Marko Vasic, Aditya Kanade, Petros Maniatis, David Bieber, and Rishabh Singh. 2019. Neural Program Repair by Jointly Learning to Localize and Repair. CoRR 

abs/1904.01720 (2019). arXiv:1904.01720 doi:10.48550/arXiv.1904.01720 [66] Ke Wang, Rishabh Singh, and Zhendong Su. 2018. Search, align, and repair: data-driven feedback generation for introductory programming exercises. In 

Proceedings of the 39th ACM SIGPLAN conference on programming language design and implementation . 481–495. doi:10.1145/3192366.3192384 [67] Xingyao Wang, Boxuan Li, Yufan Song, Frank F Xu, Xiangru Tang, Mingchen Zhuge, Jiayi Pan, Yueqi Song, Bowen Li, Jaskirat Singh, et al. 2025. OpenHands: An open platform for AI software developers as generalist agents. In International Conference on Learning Representations , Vol. 2025. 65882–65919. doi:10.48550/ arXiv.2407.16741 [68] Kari Edison Watkins, Brian Ferris, Alan Borning, G Scott Rutherford, and David Layton. 2011. Where Is My Bus? Impact of mobile real-time information on the perceived and actual wait time of transit riders. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice 45, 8 (2011), 839–848. doi:10.1016/j.tra.2011.06.010 [69] Wikipedia contributors. 2026. diff - Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ Diff [Online; Accessed 2026-03-25]. [70] Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yinlin Deng, Soren Dunn, and Lingming Zhang. 2025. Demystifying llm-based software engineering agents. Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering 2, FSE (2025), 801–824. doi:10.1145/3715754 [71] Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuxiang Wei, and Lingming Zhang. 2023. Automated program repair in the era of large pre-trained language models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) .IEEE, 1482–1494. doi:10.1109/ICSE48619.2023.00129 [72] Chunqiu Steven Xia and Lingming Zhang. 2022. Less training, more repairing please: revisiting automated program repair via zero-shot learning. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering . 959–971. doi:10.1145/3540250.3549101 [73] Chunqiu Steven Xia and Lingming Zhang. 2024. Automated program repair via conversation: Fixing 162 out of 337 bugs for $0.42 each using ChatGPT. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis . 819–831. doi:10.1145/3650212.3680323 [74] Jifeng Xuan, Matias Martinez, Favio Demarco, Maxime Clement, Sebastian Lame-las Marcote, Thomas Durieux, Daniel Le Berre, and Martin Monperrus. 2016. Nopol: Automatic repair of conditional statement bugs in java programs. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 43, 1 (2016), 34–55. doi:10.1109/TSE.2016. 2560811 [75] Deheng Yang, Xiaoguang Mao, Liqian Chen, Xuezheng Xu, Yan Lei, David Lo, and Jiayu He. 2022. Transplantfix: Graph differencing-based code transplantation for automated program repair. In Proceedings of the 37th IEEE/ACM International Con-ference on Automated Software Engineering . 1–13. doi:10.1145/3551349.3556893 [76] John Yang, Carlos E Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press. 2024. SWE-Agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024), 50528–50652. doi:10.52202/079017-1601 [77] John Yang, Kilian Lieret, Carlos E Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kabir Khandpur, Yanzhe Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Ofir Press, Ludwig Schmidt, and Diyi Yang. 2025. SWE-Smith: Scaling data for software engineering agents. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (2025). doi:10.52202/085713-3239 [78] Weiqing Yang, Hanbin Wang, Zhenghao Liu, Xinze Li, Yukun Yan, Shuo Wang, Yu Gu, Minghe Yu, Zhiyuan Liu, and Ge Yu. 2025. COAST: Enhancing the Code Debugging Ability of LLMs through Communicative Agent Based Data Synthesis. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2025 . Association for Computational Linguistics, 2570–2585. doi:10.18653/v1/ 2025.findings-naacl.139 [79] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing Reasoning and Acting in Language Models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations .doi:10.48550/arXiv.2210.03629 [80] He Ye, Matias Martinez, Xiapu Luo, Tao Zhang, and Martin Monperrus. 2022. SelfAPR: Self-supervised program repair with test execution diagnostics. In 

Proceedings of the 37th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE) . ACM, 92:1–92:13. doi:10.1145/3551349.3556926 [81] He Ye, Matias Martinez, and Martin Monperrus. 2022. Neural program repair with execution-based backpropagation. In Proceedings of the 44th international conference on software engineering . 1506–1518. doi:10.1145/3510003.3510222 [82] He Ye and Martin Monperrus. 2024. Iter: Iterative neural repair for multi-location patches. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) . doi:10.1145/3597503.3623337 [83] Tingting Yu and Michael Pradel. 2018. Pinpointing and repairing performance bottlenecks in concurrent programs. Empirical Software Engineering 23, 5 (2018), 3034–3071. doi:10.1007/s10664-017-9578-1 Catching Developers in the Flow: Low-Latency Agentic Program Repair at Google Scale 

[84] Yuntong Zhang, Haifeng Ruan, Zhiyu Fan, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2024. Autocoderover: Autonomous program improvement. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis . 1592– 1604. doi:10.1145/3650212.3680384 [85] Qihao Zhu, Zeyu Sun, Yuan-an Xiao, Wenjie Zhang, Kang Yuan, Yingfei Xiong, and Lu Zhang. 2021. A syntax-guided edit decoder for neural program repair. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM joint meeting on European software engineering conference and symposium on the foundations of software engineering . 341–353. doi:10.1145/3468264.3468544 [86] Celal Ziftci and Diego Cavalcanti. 2020. De-flake your tests: Automatically locating root causes of flaky tests in code at Google. In 2020 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME) . IEEE, 736–745. doi:10. 1109/ICSME46990.2020.00083