Title: Skill Issue: Lessons from Optimizing Repository SKILLs for Coding Agents

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.12742v1

Published Time: Mon, 14 Sep 2026 00:55:56 GMT

Number of Pages: 72

Markdown Content:
# Skill Issue: Lessons from Optimizing Repository SKILLs for Coding Agents 

Mykhailo Kozyrev 

Technical University of Munich, JetBrains Research Munich, Germany 

mykhailo.kozyrev@jetbrains.com 

Andrei Kozyrev 

JetBrains Research Berlin, Germany 

andrei.kozyrev@jetbrains.com 

Anton Podkopaev 

Constructor University Bremen, JetBrains Research Amsterdam, Netherlands 

apodkopaev@constructor.university 

# Abstract 

Coding agents increasingly read repository knowledge from SKILLs — plain .md 

files versioned alongside the code. Recent work synthesizes these files automati-cally, by optimizing the document against a benchmark. A bare repository comes with no benchmark, and the synthetic tasks prior work builds are small enough that a capable agent saturates them with no document at all. We mine harder tasks — merged pull requests of the repository, reverted at a single frozen base commit; and score a candidate document by whether the same agent does better with it than without it. On three Kotlin repositories, the documents GEPA finds raise this score by 4.9pp on average, and the ones SkillOpt finds leave it where it started, 0.1pp above the seed. The GEPA gain matches what prior work reports with the same optimizer, and at the dataset size a single repository supplies it cannot be separated from the agent’s run-to-run variance; settling that would take more tasks than one repository’s history yields. The documents themselves read better than the score: a maintainer of one repository found in them knowledge one only gets by working in the project. 

# 1 Introduction 

Large language models are increasingly deployed as coding agents that operate with tools, domain context, and verifiers rather than as single prompts. As task complexity grows, the focus shifts from optimizing model weights to managing an agent’s memory across tasks. Several attempts have been made to find the right representation for this memory (Zhang et al., 2026; Ouyang et al., 2026; Cai et al., 2025; Zheng et al., 2025). These representations, however, are not self-contained artifacts: reading the memory at inference time requires a standing service outside the repository. Retrieval runs against an embedding model and a vector store on every task, and, when the memory keeps self-evolving, an LLM-as-a-judge labels each new trajectory while an update step folds it back into the store (Ouyang et al., 2026). This separate infrastructure makes such methods hard to integrate into a developer’s day-to-day workflow. A growing body of work instead represents the distilled knowledge as reusable SKILLs 1 — plain 

.md files that live in the repository alongside the code. Being native artifacts, they can be versioned, reviewed in a pull request, and merged like any other source file, without a separate memory system  

> 1Agent’s SKILLs: https://agentskills.io
> Preprint. arXiv:2609.12742v1 [cs.AI] 11 Sep 2026

to maintain. This lightweight approach is gaining traction rapidly: the AGENTS.md format is already used by over 60,000 open-source projects (Agentic AI Foundation, 2026), and the SKILL specification is supported by more than 45 agent tools across competing vendors (Anthropic, 2025). While such SKILLs are often written by hand, a line of work seeks to synthesize them automatically from an agent’s own runs. These works follow a common pattern: the agent’s goal is framed as solving a particular task, and success is measured as a pass-rate on a given dataset (Wang et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2026). An optimization loop reasons over the agent’s trajectories, proposes edits to the optimization target (the SKILL), and evaluates each edit by the agent’s updated performance. We study the repository-specific case of this pattern: the SKILL describes a single code repository, and its job is to help a coding agent solve everyday tasks in it. This case is underexplored, and the reason is the dataset the pattern presumes: a repository does not come with one, and no metric cleanly captures the “performance” of an agent on it. Several works attempt to proxy it: by automatically constructing isolated test environments for agents operating in the repository (Maple, 2026), or by mining SWE-bench (Jimenez et al., 2024)-style datasets constructed from the repository (GEPA, 2026b). However, those approaches remain early-stage, and existing evaluations use synthetic tasks rather than real changes mined from the repository’s history. How much such a synthesized SKILL actually helps is, moreover, hard to read off the reported numbers. Gskill (GEPA, 2026b,a), the latter of these, lifts held-out resolve rate from 55% to 

82% on one repository and from 24% to 93% on another, but measured against a reduced mini-swe-agent (SWE-agent team, 2025) driven by a small model, gpt-5-mini . On their strongest configuration, a Claude Code harness running Sonnet 4.5, the same benchmark leaves almost nothing to move: the agent reaches 100% on the first repository with no skill at all, and 94 .8% → 100% on the second. At that resolution a binary pass rate is the wrong instrument, because it records only whether a task passed, not whether it passed for the right reason: Sahoo et al. (2026) report that 

10 .7% of passing agent trajectories reach that verdict through blind retries or unverified edits rather than a principled solution. A gain of a few points is thus of the same magnitude as the share of passes the metric itself mislabels. The likely cause is the instrument rather than the method; the tasks come from SWE-smith (Yang et al., 2025), which injects defects into working code and so yields small, localized fixes rather than the changes a developer would make; we quantify this on their released data in § 5. To address this, we change the instrument in two ways. First, we mine harder tasks — real merged pull requests from a repository no benchmark covers, each specified by the tests the pull request itself adds or, when it adds none, by the repository’s existing tests that fail once the change is reverted. The same agent that saturates the synthetic benchmark 2 resolves roughly 53% of these with no SKILL, which leaves the headroom a skill would have to explain. Second, we drop the transfer assumption and optimize directly against the agent we intend to ship, rather than against a cheap proxy. Concretely, we treat SKILL generation as an optimization of a single .md document against a metric mined from the target repository itself. The setup has two parts: a verifier that scores a SKILL variant, and a proposer that edits the SKILL. As proposers we compare GEPA (Agrawal et al., 2025), a framework for optimizing any system with textual parameters against any evaluation metric, and SkillOpt (Yang et al., 2026), a strategy for self-evolving agent skills. The verifier replays merged pull requests of the target repository. Each task reverse-applies one merged change at a base commit shared by every task, reintroducing the problem the change solved, and the tests that start failing become its specification. A Claude agent then attempts the task. The agent is the same on every run, with the same model, tools and limits, and only the SKILL varies. Rather than measuring a variant’s pass rate, we compare each of its rollouts with the seed SKILL’s rollout on the same task, so a variant gains nothing from tasks the agent already solves without it (§ 3). Mirroring real pull requests is SWE-smith’s (Yang et al., 2025) own strategy, and their ablations rank it the most valuable one; we apply it outside Python and report the validity defects we ran into (§ 4). This work focuses on Kotlin repositories, following our internal interest in JVM tooling. We build such datasets for three of them: kotest/kotest , ktorio/ktor and JetBrains/koog (Kotest, 2026; JetBrains, 2026b,a), and optimize a SKILL for each of them with both proposers. The SKILLs found by GEPA raise the mean score by 4.9pp and those found by SkillOpt by 0.1pp. Neither gain is 

> 2The same harness, Claude Code, one model version later: gskill’s transfer experiment runs Sonnet 4.5, while we run Sonnet 4.6.

2statistically significant on splits of this size, 20 to 26 held-out tasks per repository, and GEPA’s is of the same order as what gskill reports with the same optimizer on its strongest configuration, and as the share of passes a binary verdict mislabels. On the metric we thus reproduce prior work’s picture. We add what the number lacks: a bound on what a split this size can detect, and a maintainer’s reading of the documents. Looking at the runs behind the gain, we attribute the difficulty to the measurement rather than to the optimizers: the variance of the score compounds the run-to-run variance of the agent, so a difference of this size sits inside the spread the agent produces on its own, and the reflector is asked to choose between candidates separated by less than that. Converging under such a signal would, in practice, take more tasks than a repository supplies. For example, mining and validation leave 119 tasks out of 

koog ’s 660 merged pull requests. Scoring one candidate on one task is a full agent rollout, $ 0.84 on average in our runs, so a 200 -attempt optimization run costs hundreds of dollars (see table 1); the repository’s history and the budget both run out before the split is large enough. Inspecting the SKILLs themselves gives a more favourable picture than the score does, and it is also what exposed a defect in our own setup. Our first configuration followed SWE-bench and placed each task at its own parent commit; the optimizer then reflected over a repository spread across months of history and wrote claims that were false at the version the SKILL would ship against: module paths, build invocations, APIs that had since moved. Mining in the reverse direction at a single frozen base removes this by construction (see § 3), and only after this change did the optimized SKILLs consistently describe the state of the repository the agent runs against. To assess the artifacts independently of the score, we asked a maintainer of one of the studied repositories, koog , to read the SKILLs both optimizers produced, and to review the agent’s solutions to two open issues in the repository under three setups: no SKILL, the GEPA SKILL, and the SkillOpt SKILL (§ 4.3). In short: both documents contain knowledge one only gets by working in the project, and both pad it with general advice the agent does not need. On the live issues, with either document the agent finished in under half the wall-clock time and at lower cost. This work makes four contributions. (i) A pipeline that mines an optimization dataset from a reposi-tory’s own merged pull requests, applied to JVM repositories at a single frozen base commit, together with the limits of what it can produce (§ 6). (ii) An evaluation of two SKILL optimizers, GEPA and SkillOpt, over these datasets for three repositories, under an objective that scores each rollout against the seed SKILL’s. (iii) An examination of the SKILLs themselves, including their review by a koog 

maintainer, showing that at this dataset size the pass-rate delta cannot carry the claim on its own. (iv) Numbers on what such mining yields: how many tasks survive, and what a single rollout costs. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. § 2 reviews the two proposers. § 3 defines reverse-PR mining, pairing, and the scores we rejected. § 4 answers four research questions on kotest, ktor, and koog: what the mining yields, what the documents gain, whether the gain is separable from the agent’s variance, and how a maintainer reads them. § 5 situates the work against prompt optimization, repository context files, and gskill. § 6 states where the pipeline does not apply to a new repository. 

# 2 Preliminaries 

This section describes the two optimizers we instrument, GEPA and SkillOpt. Both were chosen because they optimize a natural-language artifact by reflecting over the agent’s own rollouts, and because neither requires infrastructure beyond the repository at inference time; § 5 places them among the alternatives. 

GEPA. GEPA (Agrawal et al., 2025; Khattab et al., 2023) is a prompt optimizer. It treats the agent’s prompt as the candidate being optimized and a strong reflection LM as the mutation operator. On each iteration, GEPA selects a candidate from the current Pareto frontier (Miettinen, 1999), samples a small minibatch of training tasks, and runs the selected candidate on that minibatch to collect scores, rollout transcripts, and textual feedback. The reflection LM then uses this evidence to propose a rewritten candidate. If the rewritten candidate improves over its parent on the minibatch, GEPA adds it to the candidate pool and evaluates it on a larger selection set, which is used to maintain the Pareto frontier and to choose the final candidate. 3SkillOpt. SkillOpt (Yang et al., 2026) frames skill learning as optimization over an external natural-language state: the skill is a single .md document that a separate optimizer model edits while the target agent stays frozen. Each step runs the current skill on a batch of training tasks, and the optimizer reflects over minibatches of successes and failures to propose bounded add /delete /replace edits. The number of edits applied per step is capped by an edit budget — a textual analogue of a learning rate, decayed on a schedule — and the merged edits are ranked by expected utility before the top ones are applied. A candidate skill is accepted only if it strictly improves a held-out selection score; otherwise it is rejected, and its edits enter an epoch-local rejected-edit buffer that keeps later proposals from repeating them. An epoch-wise slow/meta update behaves like momentum, folding durable lessons from adjacent epochs into a protected field of the document. Both are reflection-driven optimizers over a natural-language artifact, but GEPA rewrites the whole instruction freely from a pool sampled off a Pareto frontier, while SkillOpt applies bounded, budgeted edits to one evolving document behind a strict improvement gate. We instrument both against the same validation score, to separate the effect of the metric from the effect of the optimizer. 

# 3 Methodology 

A SKILL, in this paper, is a single .md file that the harness loads into the agent’s context before each task, and it is the only parameter we optimize: the coding model and the agent’s topology stay fixed. Since almost no repository ships a benchmark, optimizing that file requires tasks the agent can attempt and a score over its runs; the proposers that read those runs and edit the document are GEPA and SkillOpt (§ 2). This section defines the tasks, the score, and the evaluation procedure both proposers share. Evaluating a candidate means running the same coding agent on a task with that document loaded. The agent works in an isolated copy of the repository with the project’s history hidden, so it cannot read the original change and paste it back. The first candidate carries no advice; every later one is an edit of it. A run returns the agent’s attempt, the edits it made, and how the tests then behaved. 

3.1 Task collection 

We target Kotlin, which SWE-smith (Yang et al., 2025) does not support: its entity extraction runs through the Python ast module and its harness assumes pytest . We therefore reimplement its highest-ranked strategy, PR mirroring, for the JVM. We stream a repository’s merged pull requests and split each diff by path into an implementation part and a test part over .kt and .kts files. A merged change can be turned into a task in two directions. The forward direction is the SWE-bench setup: check out the commit the change was written against, apply its test patch, and ask the agent for the implementation. It yields the most tasks, since every merged change is usable at its own parent commit, but it anchors each task to a different, historical version of the repository, and two problems occur. Where pull requests depend on one another, the test patch does not compile at the parent commit at all, because the sibling changes it relies on had not merged yet. And a SKILL optimized over such a distribution describes the repository as it was across months of history rather than as it is: the SKILLs we obtained this way asserted module layouts and APIs that no longer exist, and the agent followed that advice into failures. § I shows one such document: its opening lines instruct the agent to identify which of “two distinct repository shapes” it is working in — one repository, seen at different points of its history. We therefore mine in the reverse direction, reverting the implementation at a single frozen base commit shared by every task, so that whatever a SKILL learns describes the current repository. There are two trade-offs to this. The first is the number of tasks: a change is only usable while the code it touched is still present at the frozen base, so a small or heavily refactored repository runs out of candidates (more in § 6). The second is that a change rarely reverse-applies at a base it was not written against, so we revert in three tiers, cheapest first. git apply --reverse handles the changes the base has not drifted away from. Added and deleted files are then undone structurally, by re-creating or removing them. Only modified files that survive neither tier, and that fall within a size gate, are passed to an LLM, which is shown the current file together with the forward diff and asked to reconstruct the pre-change source. The patch is re-derived from git afterwards rather than taken from the model’s output, so every instance is a real patch against the real base. Tests already exist at 4the frozen base, so a change that shipped none of its own stays usable: reverting it can still make an existing test fail, and validation finds which one. The LLM tier carries most of the yield — only 25 of koog ’s 119 graded tasks reverse-apply cleanly, 

56 of 100 on kotest and 65 of 131 on ktor — and introduces defects of its own that the validation gate cannot see; a static check catches them (§ A). Launching an agent on a dataset item requires a task description. Since our dataset items are pull requests, a natural choice for the problem description is the corresponding issue. However, issues are not always available: many changes are opened without one, and repositories that track work in an external tracker leave nothing linked on GitHub. The pull request’s own description is the obvious fallback, but it is written after the work is completed and often leaks the solution to the agent. When no issue is linked we therefore synthesise the statement instead, rewriting the pull request description into issue-style text with a single LLM call at collection time, following SWE-smith’s finding that model-written issue text performs comparably to real issue text. Each synthesised statement is then checked against the gold patch for leakage. The repository leaks the solution as well, so links into the pull request are scrubbed, and each container strips .git and re-initialises a single commit before the agent starts. 

Validation and grading. A mined task is only worth a rollout if reverting its implementation actually breaks the tests meant to grade it. A task that already passes at the reverted base gives every candidate a score of 1, and one that already fails for unrelated reasons gives every candidate a 0; in both cases the task discriminates nothing, and neither condition is visible from the rollout itself. We therefore validate every task before admitting it. Validation runs inside a Docker image built once per repository. Its build and test commands are first discovered by the agent. The suite is then run once at the unmodified base to record which tests pass there; then, per task, the gold patch is reverse-applied and the suite re-run. The tests that switch from passing to failing become that task’s FAIL_TO_PASS set — the mechanism that also recovers grading targets for changes that shipped no tests of their own. A task is rejected if no test switches, if the affected tests were already failing, if the patch will not reverse-apply, or if the reversion breaks so much of the suite that it no longer isolates the change; each accepted task additionally carries up to 30 regression guards sampled from the tests that passed at the base. 

3.2 The objective 

Scoring a rollout on its own measures the repository rather than the document: the agent already resolves many tasks with no advice at all, so every candidate collects whatever the split makes easy, and a SKILL that changes nothing about the agent still keeps that score. We therefore score a pair .The seed SKILL is run once on every task, and each candidate rollout is compared against the seed’s rollout on the same task, under the same model, tools, limits and container. The number then answers one question: whether the agent did better with the document than without it. The two rollouts are compared in three steps, and the first step that separates them decides. A rollout that edits the test files, or that reports a success its own tests contradict, loses to one that does not. Failing that, the rollout satisfying every hidden FAIL_TO_PASS test wins. Only when neither step separates them do the remaining quantities break the tie, the fraction of tests passed, the honesty of the final claim, the size of the diff, the number of tool calls, blended within a bounded range, so a cheaper or tidier rollout can never outrank a correct one. The seed against itself is exactly 0.5, which makes 0.5 the number a candidate has to beat, and makes a regression on a single task visible as a score below it. Before pairing we tried absolute scores: the number of tasks the agent solved outright, with every hidden FAIL_TO_PASS test passing, the distance between its diff and the merged one, the price of the run, a judge’s verdict on the trajectory, and a grade given to the document itself. Each answers a different question than ours, and the failures bracket the range. Counting solved tasks leaves almost every rollout at 0, so the proposer sees no difference between candidates and ships the seed. Grading the document improves the grade while leaving the agent unchanged. 3

The seed is an empty document; every number we report is the same agent measured with it and without it. 

> 3§ D reports each of these scores, the document it selected, and why we dropped it.

5Table 1: Final test-set score and optimization cost per repository. Spend is the total agent API cost of the run.                                    

> repository optimizer ∆test-set paired spend wall clock
> JetBrains/koog GEPA +1 0.525 $368.82 4.7 h SkillOpt +2 0.546 $401.44 8.14 h
> kotest/kotest GEPA +3 0.554 $182.48 4.9 h SkillOpt +1 0.519 $263.56 13.3 h
> ktorio/ktor GEPA +4 0.567 $312.87 13.0 h SkillOpt −20.437 $484.81 25.2 h total $2,013.98 69.2 h

# 4 Experiments 

This section asks four questions. RQ1 : how many usable tasks does the procedure described in § 3.1 recover from a repository’s merged pull requests, and how difficult are they compared to the tasks SWE-smith (Yang et al., 2025) mines? RQ2 : do GEPA and SkillOpt find a document that helps the agent on held-out tasks? RQ3 : can a gain of the size we measure be attributed to the document, rather than to the agent’s own variance on the same tasks? RQ4 : do the resulting documents hold knowledge a maintainer of the repository finds useful? 

4.1 Setup 

The coding agent is Claude Code, driven by Sonnet 4.6. We leave that model frozen: the only thing that changes between candidates is the SKILL.md loaded into context. Each attempt runs in a fresh Docker container, from an image built once per repository, on an isolated checkout at the frozen base with .git removed. The tools and the limits are the same for every candidate; only the document differs. We score a candidate by pairing it with the stored empty-seed run of the same task (§ 3.2). 4 Each repository’s tasks are split once into train, validation, and test. GEPA is allowed 200 scored attempts on each repository. SkillOpt runs three epochs on the same splits, with the test split left unseen. The repositories are Kotlin/JVM projects that SWE-smith does not cover and whose test suite a sandbox can run. To answer RQ1 we report two properties of the resulting pools. First, what the procedure of § 3.1 yields. Of 660 of koog ’s merged pull requests, 119 became graded tasks; 5 ktor 

gives 131 out of 452 , and kotest 100 , the last additionally cut by a seeded random sample to bound the run’s wall clock. Roughly one merged pull request in five survives, and the loss is spread over the stages: patches that no longer reverse-apply at the frozen base, reversions that break no test, changes with no test module to grade them, and tasks whose own gold patch fails to score 1. No single filter can be relaxed to make the pool much larger. Second, how difficult those tasks are. The instances SWE-smith releases for the repositories gskill optimizes against change a median of 4 and 7 lines and are confined to a single file in 98 –100% of cases (§ 5). Ours are larger: a median of 54 lines across 3 files on koog , 27 across 2 on ktor , and 

16 within one file on kotest , with only 23% , 50% and 73% of tasks respectively touching a single file. The repositories differ, so the contrast is between ways of building tasks, not between projects. With no SKILL loaded the agent resolves 40% of koog ’s tasks, 51% of kotest ’s and 66% of ktor ’s, 

53% pooled, where the same harness leaves almost nothing to resolve on SWE-smith’s. 

4.2 The measured gain RQ2 is settled on the split neither proposer saw. GEPA’s document scores 0.554 on kotest , 0.567 

on ktor and 0.525 on koog , against the seed’s 0.5 against itself; counted in resolved tasks that is 

13 → 16 of 20 , 16 → 20 of 26 and 14 → 15 of 23 . SkillOpt, on the same splits, scores 0.546 on   

> 4Skill is actually present, but contains nothing but a header
> 5These counts are the most recent merged pull requests we streamed, not the repositories’ full histories; we stopped once the surviving pool cleared 100 tasks.

6koog , 0.519 on kotest and 0.437 on ktor . On the same tasks and the same seed, GEPA’s document wins on every repository, while SkillOpt’s loss on ktor cancels its gains elsewhere. 

RQ3 asks whether that gain belongs to the document or to the agent rerolling. If the document does nothing, the two rollouts of a task are exchangeable and the candidate wins half of them, so a sign test over the tasks where they disagree tests exactly that; no run of either proposer clears p = 0 .05 , the best being p = 0 .29 . The more useful number is what such a split could have shown at all: at 20 –26 

tasks the test rejects only when the document wins four of every five disagreements, and pooled over 

69 tasks two of three. Every effect reported in this line of work sits below that line: ours, and gskill’s on its strongest configuration. The documents may still help; however, a pass rate over a hundred mined tasks is not sensitive enough to show it. § 4.3 therefore puts it to a maintainer instead. 

4.3 A maintainer’s reading RQ4 puts the two koog documents in front of a maintainer of that repository, section by section. Of the one GEPA produced (§ E), the parts they marked as worth having are the ones a reader cannot get without working in the project. On multiplatform source sets, Kotlin’s mechanism for splitting a module’s code between target platforms, “we had a lot of pain with them, agents often do not understand what is going on there” ; the rule that code must not reach across source-set boundaries is 

“all correct, good that it is included” ; the prescribed direction of dependencies between modules is 

“very important” . Their request there is for more of the same: the multiplatform section “needs to be written in even more detail, but a developer has to do that, because the details have to be spelled out” . The misses are as specific. The document never mentions @Tool , the annotation that turns a Kotlin function into a tool the agent can call and “the simplest way to define a tool” , which they call “very strange” ; on expect /actual , Kotlin’s way of declaring an API once and implementing it per platform, it states the rule but omits the pattern the team uses to avoid duplicating code, “it took us a while to work out how to avoid that” ; and on the least stable APIs it goes into detail the code will not honour, since “the API is less stable than that level of detail implies” . One section, on checking claims about the public API against the repository’s generated listings of it, they read as having missed its own point. In the document SkillOpt produced (§ H) the maintainer finds less to keep. One item is singled out as 

“great and important” : that registering a new module is a three-file change, which is non-trivial in 

koog and nowhere written down, while the rest reads to them as “a lot of description of very general best practices” , of the kind that “the agent should know by itself” and that belongs “in a global skill, and only the repository-specific pieces kept in the repo” . Several sections are valid and too small to matter: repository conventions, explicit API mode, multi-module build hygiene. This is one maintainer of one repository, and what we collected is an opinion of what the two documents contain. We asked whether they would merge either document if it arrived as a pull request, the maintainer takes the GEPA one: they “would take the first as a draft and polish it” , and “as a draft it is super” ;the SkillOpt one “needs more polishing” .The review closes with two issues that were open in the repository when the experiment was set up: #1275, on reporting cached token counts, and #1354, on attaching response headers to a thrown error. The agent solved each with no SKILL, with the GEPA document and with the SkillOpt one, and the maintainer read the three patches per issue in an anonymized diff viewer, not knowing which produced which. With either document the agent finishes faster and cheaper on both: end to end it takes 15 and 20 minutes with no SKILL against 6 to 8 minutes with one, at $ 6.06 and $ 4.85 against $2.44 to $ 4.20 (see table in § B; the patches are in § J). On #1275 the three patches are “quite similar” : the GEPA one is “notably more minimalist, which is good” , the no-SKILL one “does a bit extra” and leaves “strange comments in several places” , the SkillOpt one “looks fine” , and all three lack an integration test. On #1354 the solutions are “overall ok” : the GEPA one is “a bit tidier” than the no-SKILL one, both of those updated the repository’s generated API listings unprompted, and the SkillOpt one is “almost identical” to the GEPA one. 

# 5 Related Work 

We generate a SKILL for a code repository by optimizing its text against a metric mined from that same repository. Prior work covers these components separately: optimizers that search over text, 7the repository-level file formats a SKILL is written in, and earlier attempts to synthesize such files automatically. We review each in turn. 

Prompt and context optimization. Optimizing an agent’s textual context against a scored objective is by now a well-established setting. DSPy (Khattab et al., 2023) provides a general framework for it, GEPA (Agrawal et al., 2025) evolves prompts by reflecting over rollouts (§ 2), and systems such as ACE (Zhang et al., 2026) and ReasoningBank (Ouyang et al., 2026) accumulate distilled experience across tasks and feed it back into subsequent runs. SKILL optimization is a close relative of this line: the target is still a natural-language artifact, and the optimizer is still a reflection loop over trajectories. What these approaches share, however, is a structural assumption — a task distribution and a scalar metric are given in advance — and a bare code repository supplies neither. Our setting therefore inherits their machinery but not their premise: constructing the metric becomes part of the problem rather than an input to it. 

Repository-level context files. A parallel line places the distilled knowledge in the repository itself, as plain .md files — the AGENTS.md format (Agentic AI Foundation, 2026) and the SKILL specification (Anthropic, 2025). We adopt this representation for the reasons given in § 1; for an optimizer, it imposes an additional constraint: the output must remain a document a developer is willing to review and maintain. Whether such files help at all is, however, unsettled. Gloaguen et al. (2026) evaluate developer-committed and LLM-generated AGENTS.md /CLAUDE.md files across four agent and model pairs, on SWE-bench Lite and on a benchmark of tasks mined from repositories that already ship them. Files produced by the agents’ own initialization commands do not improve the resolution rate — −0.5% 

and −2% on average, neither significant — while raising cost by 20% –23% ; developer-written files gain 2.4% , also not significant. Yet once the repository’s remaining documentation is stripped away, the same generated files land slightly ahead ( +2 .7% ), which suggests that in their default form they largely restate the README. 

Automatic skill synthesis. Rather than authoring such artifacts by hand, several works synthesize them from an agent’s own runs. Voyager (Wang et al., 2023) grows a library of executable skills from successful rollouts in an environment with a dense, automatic reward, and SkillWeaver (Zheng et al., 2025) applies the same idea to web agents; in both cases the artifact is code rather than prose. FLEX (Cai et al., 2025) does accumulate a natural-language experience library through reflection on successes and failures, but it is evaluated on mathematical and scientific reasoning, where a ground-truth answer is always available. SkillOpt (Yang et al., 2026) makes the optimization over a natural-language document explicit (§ 2). For code, the metric must first be defined: skill-optimizer (Maple, 2026) constructs isolated test environments for the agent, while gskill (GEPA, 2026b) generates task datasets over a target repository. GEPA’s authors apply their optimizer to this problem directly — automatic SKILL synthesis for a single repository — in gskill (GEPA, 2026b) and an accompanying blog post (GEPA, 2026a). It is the closest published system to ours; its held-out numbers and their saturation under a production agent are discussed in § 1. The optimization target itself invites the scaffolding those numbers hide: gskill evolves the skill slot of its own agent template, whose instance prompt is 34 characters long, while the stock mini-swe-agent (SWE-agent team, 2025) template shipped beside it is 2,369 characters and carries the recommended workflow, the file-editing recipes, and the submission command. Part of what the optimizer recovers into the skill is therefore scaffolding the target agent does not need — consistent with the published excerpt, whose advice (“run tests early, start broad with go test ./... ”, “avoid scratch main.go files in repo root”) is generic agent hygiene rather than repository knowledge (GEPA, 2026a); the authors themselves caution that some of these skills help “SWE-smith style tasks (fixing issues)” more than general coding practices. This reading comes from their released configuration and published excerpt, not from rerunning their optimization, and we make no claim about their reported rates. The tasks themselves are the second half of the instrument: SWE-smith (Yang et al., 2025) takes the repository’s existing tests as the specification and writes issue text with a model; the authors note that the resulting instances are comparatively simple. SWE-smith’s own ablations, though, rank PR mirroring (§ 3.1) as its most valuable strategy, and it is almost absent from the released data: none of 8the 351 instances of the Go repository gskill uses are PR-mirrored, and 1 of the 957 Python ones 6.What remains is procedural and LLM mutation, and every patch on the Go repository is confined to a single file. A further 37 .6% of that repository’s instances ship no problem statement at all; gskill’s evaluation drops them, but its optimization path does not, so part of the signal it reflects over comes from tasks the agent was never told about. 

# 6 Limitations 

The procedure of § 3.1 does not automatically produce a usable optimization set. Both proposers need three disjoint splits — a train split the proposer edits against, a validation split that keeps or rejects a rewrite, and a test split neither sees — so we run them on a repository only once mining and validation have left at least 100 graded tasks. That floor is what makes three splits possible, not evidence that it suffices: it yields held-out splits of 20 to 26 tasks, and at that size a pass-rate comparison cannot separate a few-point gain from the agent’s own variance (§ 4.2). Two repositories we tried never reached it, each failing a different check. JetBrains/tracy (Jet-Brains, 2026c) fails reverse-application: a package rename left none of its 213 production files unchanged over three months, so almost none of its historical diffs still applied at the frozen base, and validation kept 5 tasks out of 203 merged pull requests. http4k/http4k (http4k, 2026) fails validation instead. Of 700 listed pull requests, 150 still reverse-applied, but reverse-application asks only whether the diff still applies, not whether reverting it makes any test fail in isolation, and fewer than 100 of those survived the second check. § C reports what each check drops, and what a new repository has to supply to clear the bound. 

# 7 Conclusion 

Optimizing a SKILL for a repository requires a task distribution and a metric that the repository does not come with, so both have to be built. Prior work builds them by injecting defects into working code. The resulting tasks are small and mostly single-file, and a capable agent already solves nearly all of them, so the pass rate has little room to move. We built the tasks from merged pull requests instead, each reverted at a single frozen base commit. They are harder, and the baseline resolve rate leaves room for a SKILL to matter. But a repository yields few of them, and each one costs a full agent run, so the splits stay small. The gains we measure — 4.9pp for GEPA and 0.1pp for SkillOpt — are not separable from the agent’s own variance at that size. The documents are more convincing than the numbers. A maintainer of one of the studied libraries 7

found in them repository knowledge that is not available without reading its history, and with either SKILL the agent reached its goal faster and at lower cost. Whether this holds more broadly is the open question. Answering it needs cheaper rollouts, or an evaluation that does not rest on a pass rate, and a developer study with many reviewers where ours has one. 

# Responsible use statement 

A synthesized SKILL can read as authoritative while stating claims that are stale or over-general: § 3.1 shows one that told the agent to work out which of two repository variants it was in, where there was only one repository seen at different points of its history, and § 4.3 a maintainer finding general advice presented as repository knowledge. Any SKILL this pipeline produces should be reviewed before it is merged, like any other pull request. The paired score measures a change in one agent’s behaviour on one mined dataset; it does not certify that the document is accurate. 

# Acknowledgments 

We thank Antonii Belyshev for the maintainer review of the SKILLs for the koog library, and Georgii Zorabov for the maintainer review of the SKILLs for the tracy library.   

> 6HuggingFace SWE-bench/SWE-smith , revision ea6d717 .
> 7koog , an agentic framework for Kotlin.

9References 

Agentic AI Foundation. 2026. AGENTS.md: An Open Format for Guiding Coding Agents. https: //agents.md/ . Open standard; reports adoption by 60,000+ open-source projects. Accessed 2026-08-13. Lakshya A Agrawal, Shangyin Tan, Dilara Soylu, Noah Ziems, Rishi Khare, Krista Opsahl-Ong, Arnav Singhvi, Herumb Shandilya, Michael J Ryan, Meng Jiang, Christopher Potts, Koushik Sen, Alexandros G. Dimakis, Ion Stoica, Dan Klein, Matei Zaharia, and Omar Khattab. 2025. GEPA: Reflective Prompt Evolution Can Outperform Reinforcement Learning. arXiv:2507.19457 [cs.CL] 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.19457 

Anthropic. 2025. Agent Skills: An Open Standard for Extending AI Agents. https://agentskills. io/ . Open standard; client showcase lists 45+ adopting tools. Accessed 2026-08-13. Zhicheng Cai, Xinyuan Guo, Yu Pei, Jiangtao Feng, Jinsong Su, Jiangjie Chen, Ya-Qin Zhang, Wei-Ying Ma, Mingxuan Wang, and Hao Zhou. 2025. FLEX: Continuous Agent Evolution via Forward Learning from Experience. arXiv:2511.06449 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.06449 

GEPA. 2026a. Automatically Learning Skills for Coding Agents. https://gepa-ai.github. io/gepa/blog/2026/02/18/automatically-learning-skills-for-coding-agents/ .Blog post, GEPA documentation. Accessed 2026-08-17. GEPA. 2026b. gskill: Learning Repository-Specific Skills. https://gepa-ai.github.io/gepa/ guides/gskill/ . Blog post, GEPA documentation. Accessed 2026-08-13. Thibaud Gloaguen, Niels Mündler, Mark Niklas Müller, Veselin Raychev, and Martin Vechev. 2026. Evaluating AGENTS.md: Are Repository-Level Context Files Helpful for Coding Agents? arXiv:2602.11988 [cs.SE] https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.11988 

http4k. 2026. http4k: The Functional Toolkit for Kotlin HTTP Applications. https://github. com/http4k/http4k . GitHub repository. Accessed 2026-08-26. JetBrains. 2026a. Koog: A JVM Framework for Building AI Agents. https://github.com/ JetBrains/koog . GitHub repository. Accessed 2026-08-26. JetBrains. 2026b. Ktor: Asynchronous Framework for Microservices and Web Applications. https: //github.com/ktorio/ktor . GitHub repository. Accessed 2026-08-26. JetBrains. 2026c. Tracy: AI Tracing Library for Kotlin and Java. https://github.com/ JetBrains/tracy . GitHub repository. Accessed 2026-08-26. Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik Narasimhan. 2024. SWE-bench: Can Language Models Resolve Real-World GitHub Issues? arXiv:2310.06770 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06770 

Omar Khattab, Arnav Singhvi, Paridhi Maheshwari, Zhiyuan Zhang, Keshav Santhanam, Sri Vard-hamanan, Saiful Haq, Ashutosh Sharma, Thomas T. Joshi, Hanna Moazam, Heather Miller, Matei Zaharia, and Christopher Potts. 2023. DSPy: Compiling Declarative Language Model Calls into Self-Improving Pipelines. arXiv:2310.03714 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03714 

Kotest. 2026. Kotest: A Flexible and Comprehensive Testing Tool for Kotlin. https://github. com/kotest/kotest . GitHub repository. Accessed 2026-08-26. Simon Maple. 2026. Stop Guessing Whether Your Skill Works: skill-optimizer Measures and Improves It. tessl.io/blog/stop-guessing-whether-your-skill-works. Tessl blog. Accessed 2026-08-13. Kaisa Miettinen. 1999. Nonlinear Multiobjective Optimization . International Series in Operations Research & Management Science, Vol. 12. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston. Siru Ouyang, Jun Yan, I-Hung Hsu, Yanfei Chen, Ke Jiang, Zifeng Wang, Rujun Han, Long T. Le, Samira Daruki, Xiangru Tang, Vishy Tirumalashetty, George Lee, Mahsan Rofouei, Hangfei Lin, Jiawei Han, Chen-Yu Lee, and Tomas Pfister. 2026. ReasoningBank: Scaling Agent Self-Evolving with Reasoning Memory. arXiv:2509.25140 [cs.AI] https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.25140 

10 Priyam Sahoo, Gaurav Mittal, Xiaomin Li, Shengjie Ma, Benjamin Steenhoek, Pingping Lin, and Yu Hu. 2026. AgentLens: Revealing The Lucky Pass Problem in SWE-Agent Evaluation. arXiv:2605.12925 [cs.SE] https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.12925 

SWE-agent team. 2025. mini-swe-agent: The 100 line AI agent that solves GitHub issues. https: //github.com/SWE-agent/mini-swe-agent . Accessed 2026-08-27. Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and Anima Anandkumar. 2023. Voyager: An Open-Ended Embodied Agent with Large Language Models. arXiv:2305.16291 [cs.AI] https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16291 

John Yang, Kilian Lieret, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kabir Khandpur, Yanzhe Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Ofir Press, Ludwig Schmidt, and Diyi Yang. 2025. SWE-smith: Scaling Data for Software Engineering Agents. arXiv:2504.21798 [cs.SE] https://arxiv.org/abs/2504. 21798 

Yifan Yang, Ziyang Gong, Weiquan Huang, Qihao Yang, Ziwei Zhou, Zisu Huang, Yan Li, Xuemei Gao, Qi Dai, Bei Liu, Kai Qiu, Yuqing Yang, Dongdong Chen, Xue Yang, and Chong Luo. 2026. SkillOpt: Executive Strategy for Self-Evolving Agent Skills. arXiv:2605.23904 [cs.AI] 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.23904 

Qizheng Zhang, Changran Hu, Shubhangi Upasani, Boyuan Ma, Fenglu Hong, Vamsidhar Kamanuru, Jay Rainton, Chen Wu, Mengmeng Ji, Hanchen Li, Urmish Thakker, James Zou, and Kunle Olukotun. 2026. Agentic Context Engineering: Evolving Contexts for Self-Improving Language Models. arXiv:2510.04618 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.04618 

Boyuan Zheng, Michael Y. Fatemi, Xiaolong Jin, Zora Zhiruo Wang, Apurva Gandhi, Yueqi Song, Yu Gu, Jayanth Srinivasa, Gaowen Liu, Graham Neubig, and Yu Su. 2025. SkillWeaver: Web Agents can Self-Improve by Discovering and Honing Skills. arXiv:2504.07079 [cs.AI] https: //arxiv.org/abs/2504.07079 

11 A Defects the LLM reverter introduces 

The reverter (§ 3.1) rewrites an old pull request’s revert against today’s code, which is the only way to get yield out of a fast-moving repository. But it reverts the call site and forgets the code behind it, in two shapes the validation gate cannot see, since the gate only asks whether the reversion breaks a test. Unimported symbol : the reversion drops an import that surviving code still needs, so the task repository does not compile, and the gate reads that compile break as proof the hidden test broke — correctly, in the common case, but not here. Stranded fix : the reversion deletes the only call to a private function while leaving the function itself, so the task repository ships with the answer written out and named for the job. A static check, run once per mined pool before any rollout, catches both: on an intermediate koog pool of 280 tasks it rejected 56 (36 unimported-symbol, 26 stranded-fix, 6

both), of which 36 had already passed the dynamic validation gate. 

# B Cost and time of the two open koog issues 

Table 2 reports the cost and time of the six runs behind § 4.3: each of the two issues, solved with no SKILL, with the GEPA document, and with the SkillOpt one. The patches themselves are printed in § J. Table 2: Two issues open in koog at the time of the experiment, each solved by the same agent under three configurations. API is time spent in model calls, wall is end to end.                         

> issue configuration cost API wall #1275 no SKILL $6.06 8 m 21 s 14 m 59 s GEPA $2.48 3 m 35 s 5 m 32 s SkillOpt $2.44 3 m 43 s 5 m 30 s #1354 no SKILL $4.85 7 m 21 s 20 m 29 s GEPA $3.10 4 m 52 s 7 m 38 s SkillOpt $4.20 5 m 33 s 8 m 24 s

# C Extended limitations 

This appendix expands § 6: what each of the two mining checks drops, why a reverse-applied count is not yet a pool of graded tasks, and what a new repository has to supply. 

How many tasks survive validation. A merged pull request is not yet a task. First, the implemen-tation must reverse-apply at the single frozen base the SKILL will ship against. If the files it touched have since been renamed, moved, or rewritten, that historical diff no longer applies, and the change is dropped. Second, we revert the surviving change in an isolated environment and re-run the suite. A task is admitted only if tests that passed at the unmodified base now fail, and those failures isolate that change: the FAIL_TO_PASS set has to be the specification of that one reversion. The candidate is dropped if no test changes from passing to failing; if the tests that would grade the change were already failing at the unmodified base; or if the reversion also fails tests that do not belong to the change. There is no numeric cutoff on how many extra tests may fail — once failures spill past the change, the task no longer grades that change. A repository can fail this second check without any rename: a change its own tests never covered, or a main branch that is already red, leaves nothing for validation to mark as FAIL_TO_PASS. 

A reverse-applied count is not yet a pool of graded tasks. Reverse-application asks only whether the historical diff still applies at the frozen tree. It does not ask whether reverting that change isolates tests. A new repository can therefore list hundreds of pull requests, reverse-apply a three-digit set of them — including changes that need the LLM reverter because the files have drifted, and changes that shipped no test hunk of their own — and still fall short of 100 graded tasks once validation runs. The candidates without a test hunk are not yet lost: they can still become tasks if existing tests fail on revert, and only the second check can tell. 12 We saw this on http4k/http4k (http4k, 2026), which we tried as a fourth repository — an HTTP library — so that a finished run would show the method is not tied to kotest, ktor, and koog. From 700 

listed pull requests we reverse-applied 150 changes at a frozen base: 35 with git apply , 82 with the LLM reverter, and 33 with no test hunk of their own. Validation then ran on those 150 candidates and left fewer than 100 graded tasks. 

When the empty SKILL already solves the training tasks. We encountered the pass-rate ceiling of § 6 with SkillOpt on http4k, before that collection ran. There was no validated pool yet, so the train set was four pull requests collected by hand. For each, the score was 1 if the agent passed every hidden test and 0 otherwise, and the number SkillOpt used to keep or reject a rewrite was the mean of those four scores. The empty SKILL already scored 1.0 on that mean, so every rewrite was rejected and the run ended on the empty file. 

What this means for a new repository. The two checks require three properties of the repository. The files those historical diffs touch must still be present in the frozen tree, otherwise reverse-application drops the change. The test suite must pass at the unmodified base, otherwise there is no FAIL_TO_PASS set to isolate. And reverting each surviving change must make some of those passing tests fail, with the failures confined to that one reversion. A linked issue is not among the requirements: when none exists we synthesise a leak-checked statement from the pull request (§ 3.1). On the repositories that met the bound, a few hundred recent merged pull requests were enough: after both checks, ktor retained 131 graded tasks from 452 recent merged pull requests and koog 119 

from 660 . We collected the most recent merged pull requests of each and stopped once 100 graded tasks remained (§ 4.1), so those counts are what these repositories yielded, not a rate a new one should expect. 

# D Objectives we rejected 

This appendix is the sweep behind the pairing choice in § 3.2. It is a preliminary run on 

JetBrains/tracy (JetBrains, 2026c), not the paired kotest, ktor, or koog results. The seed is the generic checklist in § D.1 — read the README, run a small test first, keep the diff small — not the empty file of the reported protocol. Several of the selected SKILLs are that checklist with Tracy notes added. Binary resolve and the skill-blind judge shipped no document. Each family rewards a different factor of the document or of the agent’s work. We keep pairing because our question is whether the agent does better with the file than without it. The other families remain usable if a project wants a different factor; they write a different kind of file. Table 3 measures each score on its own 0–1 scale. Table 4 then rescores the shipped files on one shared six-task pool under a 14 -turn cap. The last row of table 3 is pairing, the score we keep: on this pool it shipped the seed. 

Counting solved tasks. Binary resolve gives a point only if every hidden FAIL_TO_PASS test passed. About 92% of those rollouts scored 0, so the optimizer almost never saw a gradient and shipped the seed. Partial credit gives some points when the build compiled but the tests still failed. SkillOpt’s hard gate accepts a rewrite only when the agent fully passed more tasks than before; on a tiny train set the seed can sit at 0 or at 1.0, and the gate then freezes. When a solved-task score did write a document, it wrote the training pull requests back into prose. § D.2 tells the agent how to convert tracing/test-utils to java-test-fixtures , where to bump okhttp , and how 

LangfuseMediaSpanProcessor should upload media. That is useful for the instances the optimizer saw. It is not a reusable policy. We drop the family because the number ranks how easy the split is, and when it moves it overfits the harness. 

Matching the gold patch. CodeBLEU, overlap of the assertions that changed, and exact match ask how close the agent’s patch is to the change the maintainer merged. The document they selected is § D.3: a Tracy module list, TracingManager.setSdk , and @KotlinFlowTrace , written so the agent will touch the same files as the gold patch. A correct fix written differently is punished. On Kotlin the CodeBLEU we can compute is mostly n-gram overlap, not the AST and data-flow terms the CodeBLEU paper describes. Ten runs of the same SKILL on the same already-solved task still spanned CodeBLEU 0 to 1. On that protocol the held-out score fell (table 3). 13 Table 3: Each family on its own 0–1 scale, on a preliminary Tracy sweep. Empty is the score of the seed document. Best is the candidate the optimizer kept. Change is held-out best minus held-out empty. A run marked “no file” shipped no advice. The last row is pairing. These numbers are not the paired results in § 4. 

Validation Held-out Score Empty Best Empty Best Change 

120 pull requests, 24 held-out tasks 

Skill-reading ensemble 0.084 0.117 0.112 0.121 +0 .010 

Skill-blind judge (no file) 0.035 0.063 0.046 0.075 +0 .029 

Gold match (no file) 0.166 0.166 0.188 0.188 0

Partial credit (no file) 0.108 0.108 0.108 0.108 0

Binary resolve, 39 solvable tasks 

Binary resolve (no file) 0.143 0.143 0.222 0.222 0

Clean-diff pool, 29 tasks 

Gold match 0.296 0.317 0.337 0.284 −0.053 

Token price 0.460 0.502 0.293 0.293 0

Work mix 0.387 0.400 0.357 0.329 −0.027 

File facts 0.185 0.498 0.178 0.486 +0 .308 

File policy 0.300 0.387 0.300 0.387 +0 .087 

Pairing (no file) 0.500 0.496 0.500 0.500 0

Table 4: The files those runs shipped, each scored again on the same six Tracy tasks under a 14 -turn cap. Binary resolve is 1 only if every hidden test passed. Partial credit is the mean test-outcome tier. 

File facts and file policy score the markdown, not the agent’s patch. Mean is the average of ten scores on this pool. Rank is the mean rank across those ten (1 = best of eight files). Higher is better, except for rank. The file-facts and tool-call documents produced no patch on this pool.                                                          

> Shipped file Binary Partial File File Mean Rank resolve credit facts policy Work-mix (§ D.6) 0.333 0.467 0.503 0.274 0.376 2.30 Token-price (§ D.4) 0.333 0.467 0.339 0.373 0.358 3.50 Generic seed (§ D.1) 0.333 0.450 0.194 0.314 0.313 3.70 Gold-match (§ D.3) 0.333 0.467 0.514 0.250 0.322 3.80 File-facts (§ D.8) 0.333 0.467 0.531 0.233 0.267 4.80 Ensemble (§ D.7) 0.167 0.308 0.502 0.233 0.288 5.70 Tool-call (§ D.5) 0.333 0.467 0.503 0.186 0.265 5.70 File-policy (§ D.9) 0.167 0.300 0.327 0.404 0.230 6.50

Pricing the run. Mixing “did the tests pass” with token or dollar cost makes the empty SKILL a local optimum, because an empty file adds no extra prompt tokens. When that score did not collapse to an empty file, it selected § D.4: which modules use jvmTest and which use test . Pricing tool calls writes the opposite document. § D.5 is a full Tracy map — directory tree, TracingManager 

paths, per-module ./gradlew lines — so the agent will explore less. A work-priced mix selected the leaner guide in § D.6. Both horns are wrong for a SKILL: the cheap end ships no advice, and the expensive end ships a map the agent then spends its turns reading. Under a 14 -turn cap the long document emitted no patch. 

Asking a judge. A judge that sees only the patch and the problem statement never reads the SKILL, so there is no document to ship. On one confirmation run the held-out score rose while the file was empty, because the judge was scoring the agent’s writing. An ensemble that does read the SKILL, and asks whether the agent followed it, selected § D.7: repository identity, the top-level tree, and a readable account of TracingManager . That is an onboarding note a human can follow. It never asks whether the agent did better with the SKILL than without it. 

Scoring the file. These scores ask whether the markdown looks like a good SKILL. The gmu 

score counts verifiable repository facts. It selected § D.8: the real module list, and the rule that ai-dev-kit-tracing must be tested with jvmTest . The ideal score measures complete-ness and operational tone. It selected § D.9: compile and test playbooks, and the rule that a 14 @KotlinFlowTrace attribute handler must be a Kotlin object . Both files look like something a maintainer might ship. The score is a property of the file, not of the agent. Grounding can rise on held-out tasks while the agent does not improve. On the shared pool the gmu document emitted no patch, and the ideal document was the worst of the set on every metric that looked at behaviour (table 4). 

Why pairing. Pairing asks a causal question: does this document change what the agent does, on this task, relative to the seed? Counting solved tasks answers how easy the repository is. Matching the gold patch answers whether the wording matches the maintainer. Pricing the run answers how cheap the attempt was. A judge answers how the trace reads. Scoring the file answers whether the markdown looks complete. Those last two can move while the agent does not, which is why §§ D.8 and D.9 rose on held-out tasks and still lost on behaviour. Against an empty seed, 0.5 means the document changed nothing. On the same split used for ideal , pairing shipped the seed. That is the test we wanted. The listings below are the documents those scores selected. 

D.1 Generic seed 

This is the short, repository-agnostic checklist used as the Tracy sweep baseline in table 4. The paired runs start from an empty file instead. 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific guidance for working in this codebase. Always consult before making 

,→ changes. ---# Working in this repository You are coding inside this repository. Use the following defaults until you discover better practices by 

,→ inspecting the code: ## Discover before editing - Read the project’s README, CONTRIBUTING.md, and any AGENTS.md / CLAUDE.md before non-trivial edits. - Use Glob and Grep to locate relevant code paths instead of guessing file names. - When you change a public API, search for all callers first. ## Run tests early and iterate from failures - Find the test runner from the build manifest (‘pyproject.toml‘ / ‘requirements*.txt‘ for Python; ‘build. 

,→ gradle.kts‘ / ‘pom.xml‘ for JVM) before guessing commands. - Run a small, fast subset first (one test file or one module) before running the full suite. - When a test fails, read the full traceback and the failing test source before changing code. ## Make minimal changes - Match existing style, naming, and abstractions. Don’t introduce new patterns unless asked. - Prefer fixing the root cause over adding compensating logic elsewhere. - Don’t touch unrelated files. 

D.2 Solved-task skill 

Selected by partial-credit test resolve. Task-specific Tracy recipes: a java-test-fixtures conver-sion, version bumps, and LangfuseMediaSpanProcessor .

# Current best skill (cand=f4d3cbca) # mean=0.833 n=3 sum=2.50 cost=$4.24 # per-task: 146=1.0, 182=0.5, 205=1.0 # from iter 4 (GEPA accepted into pareto front) ---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific guidance for working in this Kotlin/JVM tracing codebase (JetBrains Tracy 

,→ / ai.jetbrains.tracy / org.jetbrains.ai.tracy). Always consult before making changes. ---# Working in this repository This is a multi-module Gradle Kotlin project (JetBrains "Tracy" tracing library) with modules under ‘ 

,→ tracing/‘ (e.g. ‘tracing/core‘, ‘tracing/openai‘, ‘tracing/anthropic‘, ‘tracing/test-utils‘, ‘tracing/ 

,→ ktor‘). Build files are ‘build.gradle.kts‘. Tests live under ‘src/jvmTest/kotlin‘ and main sources 

,→ under ‘src/jvmMain/kotlin‘. Package roots include ‘ai.jetbrains.tracy.*‘ and ‘org.jetbrains.ai.tracy.*‘. 

,→

15 ## Discover before editing - Always start by reading ‘README.md‘, ‘CONTRIBUTING.md‘, ‘AGENTS.md‘, ‘CLAUDE.md‘ (if present) and the 

,→ root ‘build.gradle.kts‘ / ‘settings.gradle.kts‘ to learn module layout and conventions. - Use Glob and Grep aggressively to locate relevant code; do not guess file names. Useful patterns: - ‘find . -path "*/jvmMain/*" -name "*.kt" | xargs grep -l <symbol>‘ - ‘find . -path "*/jvmTest/*" -name "*.kt" | xargs grep -l <symbol>‘ - Glob ‘**/*<ClassName>*‘ to find a class and its tests. - When changing a public API, search for ALL callers across every module first, including example/client 

,→ modules. Cross-module breakage (e.g. ‘tracing/anthropic‘ referencing something added in ‘tracing/test-

,→ utils‘) is a common failure mode. ## Gradle / Kotlin specifics for this repo - This is a Kotlin Multiplatform project; most JVM code lives in ‘jvmMain‘ / ‘jvmTest‘ source sets. - When converting a module to Java test fixtures (e.g. ‘test-utils‘): - Apply the ‘java-test-fixtures‘ plugin in the producing module. - In every consuming module’s ‘build.gradle.kts‘, replace ‘implementation(project(":tracing:test-utils")) 

,→ ‘ (or similar) with ‘implementation(testFixtures(project(":tracing:test-utils")))‘ in the appropriate 

,→ source set / dependency block. With Kotlin Multiplatform, ‘testFixtures(...)‘ is NOT available inside ‘ 

,→ kotlin { sourceSets { ... } }‘ dependency blocks directly –- it must be referenced from a ‘dependencies 

,→ { ... }‘ block where Java’s ‘testFixtures‘ helper is in scope. Verify by compiling; "Unresolved 

,→ reference: testFixtures" means the dependency block is wrong context. - Search every ‘build.gradle.kts‘ in the repo for references to the converted module and update them all. 

,→ Missing one consumer (e.g. ‘tracing/anthropic‘) breaks the whole build. - Move shared test helpers (e.g. ‘createTestSpanData‘) from individual test source sets into ‘test-utils‘ 

,→ testFixtures source set and delete duplicates. - Kotlin version bumps (e.g. to ‘2.1.21‘) are typically in ‘gradle/libs.versions.toml‘ or root ‘build. 

,→ gradle.kts‘. - Library version bumps (e.g. okhttp ‘4.12.0‘ -> ‘5.3.2‘, adding ‘okhttp-coroutines‘ for ‘Call. 

,→ executeAsync‘) go in ‘libs.versions.toml‘. ## Domain knowledge - ‘ContentCapturePolicy‘ / ‘TracingManager‘: capturing policies redact user/model input/output content in 

,→ spans. OpenAI handlers (chat completions, responses, images) and Anthropic handlers must respect the 

,→ policy. Tests extend ‘BaseOpenTelemetryTracingTest‘, which exposes a ‘withCapturingPolicy‘ / ‘ 

,→ traceSensitiveContent‘ toggle. - ‘protocol‘ package abstracts HTTP types (‘Response‘, ‘Request‘, ‘ContentType‘, ‘Url‘) as interfaces so 

,→ Ktor and OkHttp implementations can coexist; the migration removes Ktor from ‘core‘. - ‘LangfuseMediaSpanProcessor‘ uploads media via OkHttp (PUT to ‘uploadUrl‘); ‘uploadMediaFileToLangfuse‘ 

,→ should log errors on failure. Active job tracking must be guarded by ‘synchronized‘ blocks and must 

,→ await jobs added between snapshot and await. - ‘isStreamingRequestKey‘ should be set to ‘false‘ when ‘req‘ is null. - ‘DataUrl‘ and its tests should not depend on Ktor after the migration. ## Run tests early and iterate from failures - Discover the test runner from ‘build.gradle.kts‘ / ‘libs.versions.toml‘. Standard commands: - Single module test: ‘./gradlew :tracing:<module>:jvmTest --tests "<FQCN>"‘ - Compile check first: ‘./gradlew :tracing:<module>:compileKotlinJvm‘ and ‘./gradlew :tracing:<module>: 

,→ compileTestKotlinJvm‘ - Build script compilation: ‘./gradlew help‘ (catches ‘build.gradle.kts‘ errors like "Unresolved 

,→ reference: testFixtures"). - Run the build-script compile / a fast subset before the full suite. Always re-run after editing any ‘ 

,→ build.gradle.kts‘. - Read the full traceback and the failing test source before editing production code. ## Make minimal, consistent changes - Match existing style, naming, package layout, and abstractions. - Fix root causes; don’t add compensating logic elsewhere. - Don’t touch unrelated files, but DO update every consumer when a shared module’s API changes (test-utils, 

,→ protocol interfaces, version bumps). Incomplete propagation across modules is the most common cause of 

,→ test failures here. 

D.3 Gold-match skill 

Selected by CodeBLEU and gold-patch match. Modules and APIs aligned with the maintainer’s patch. 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific guidance for working in this codebase. Always consult before making 

,→ changes. ---# Working in this repository ## Discover before editing - Read README.md, CONTRIBUTING.md, AGENTS.md, and any ‘.claude/‘ or ‘.teamcity/‘ files before non-trivial 

,→ edits. - Use Glob and Grep to locate relevant code paths instead of guessing file names. 

16 - When you change a public API, search for all callers first. ## Repository structure This is the **Tracy** AI tracing library for Kotlin/Java by JetBrains. The root project name is ‘tracy‘. Key submodules (declared in ‘settings.gradle.kts‘): - ‘tracing/core‘ –- Kotlin Multiplatform (commonMain + jvmMain + jvmTest); core OpenTelemetry tracing - ‘tracing/openai‘, ‘tracing/anthropic‘, ‘tracing/gemini‘, ‘tracing/ktor‘ –- JVM-only adapter modules - ‘tracing/test-utils‘ –- shared test helpers - ‘eval‘ –- JVM evaluation framework (not multiplatform) - ‘examples‘ –- runnable usage examples - ‘plugin/gradle-tracy-plugin‘ and ‘plugin/tracy-compiler-plugin-*‘ –- Gradle and compiler plugins - ‘docs‘ –- MkDocs documentation Source layout conventions: - Multiplatform modules: ‘src/commonMain/kotlin/‘, ‘src/jvmMain/kotlin/‘, ‘src/jvmTest/kotlin/‘ - JVM-only modules: ‘src/main/kotlin/‘, ‘src/test/kotlin/‘ - Package root: ‘ai.dev.kit‘ (most modules); ‘ai.jetbrains.tracy‘ (openai module) ## Key APIs ### Tracing core (‘ai.dev.kit.tracing.fluent‘) - ‘withSpan(name, attributes, block)‘ –- inline function wrapping a block in an OpenTelemetry span; ‘ 

,→ withTrace()‘ is deprecated, use ‘withSpan()‘ instead - ‘TracingManager‘ –- singleton managing the OTel SDK; configure via ‘TracingManager.setSdk(...)‘ and ‘ 

,→ configureOpenTelemetrySdk(exporterConfig)‘ - ‘@KotlinFlowTrace(name, spanType)‘ –- runtime-retained annotation marking methods for automatic tracing - ‘FluentSpanAttributes‘ –- enum of MLflow/OTel span attribute keys - ‘SpanType‘ –- constants: ‘LLM‘, ‘CHAIN‘, ‘AGENT‘, ‘TOOL‘, ‘CHAT_MODEL‘, ‘RETRIEVER‘, ‘PARSER‘, ‘ 

,→ EMBEDDING‘ - ‘SpanMetadataCustomizer‘ / ‘DefaultSpanMetadataCustomizer‘ –- expect/actual pattern for platform-

,→ specific span metadata - ‘TracingSessionProvider.currentSessionId‘ / ‘withSessionIdBlocking‘ –- session ID management - Follow OpenTelemetry GenAI semantic conventions (‘io.opentelemetry.semconv.incubating. 

,→ GenAiIncubatingAttributes‘); do not invent custom attribute names ### Eval framework (‘ai.dev.kit.eval.utils‘) - ‘Generator<AIInputT, AIOutputT>‘ –- interface with ‘suspend fun generate(input): AIOutputT‘ - ‘Evaluator<GroundTruthT, AIOutputT, EvalResultT>‘ –- interface with ‘evaluate()‘ and optional ‘ 

,→ aggregateResults()‘ - ‘TestCase<AIInputT, GroundTruthT>‘ –- data class holding ‘name‘, ‘input‘, ‘groundTruth‘ - ‘EvalResult‘ –- interface; ‘SingleScoreEvalResult‘, ‘MultiScoreEvalResult‘ are concrete implementations - ‘BaseEvaluationTest‘ –- abstract JUnit 5 base class managing runs, tracing, and logging - ‘ConsoleEvaluationTest‘ (in ‘NoLoggingEvaluationTest.kt‘) –- subclass with no external logging - ‘LoggingClient‘ –- interface for experiment/run/metric backends - ‘LangfuseEvaluationTest‘ –- combines ‘BaseEvaluationTest‘ with Langfuse via ‘LangfuseEvaluationClient‘ ### Security conventions (from AGENTS.md) - Never commit API keys or credentials; use environment variables for sensitive configuration - The system redacts AI inputs/outputs by default –- preserve this behaviour, do not remove it - Spans only emit when the SDK is installed and tracing is enabled; maintain minimal overhead when 

,→ disabled ## Build and test - **Build system:** Gradle with Kotlin DSL; use ‘./gradlew‘ from the repository root - **Run tests:** ‘./gradlew test‘ (full suite) or target a single module, e.g. ‘./gradlew :tracing:core: 

,→ jvmTest‘ - **Find the test runner** from ‘build.gradle.kts‘ / ‘settings.gradle.kts‘ before guessing commands - If a build fails with "Timeout waiting to lock journal cache", another Gradle daemon is running –- wait 

,→ or stop it before retrying - Run a small, fast subset first (one module or one test file) before running the full suite - When a test fails, read the full traceback and the failing test source before changing code ## Make minimal changes - Match existing style, naming, and abstractions; do not introduce new patterns unless asked - Prefer fixing the root cause over adding compensating logic elsewhere - Do not touch unrelated files - Justify all new dependencies; add tests for new functionality 

D.4 Token-price skill 

Selected by token-priced cost, when that score did not collapse to an empty document. Compact Gradle test-task conventions. 

---name: repo-skill 

17 description: Repository-specific guidance for working in this codebase. Always consult before making 

,→ changes. ---# Working in this repository ## Discover before editing - Read the project’s README, CONTRIBUTING.md, and any AGENTS.md / CLAUDE.md before non-trivial edits. - Use Glob and Grep to locate relevant code paths instead of guessing file names. - When you change a public API, search for all callers first. ## Run tests early and iterate from failures - Find the test runner from the build manifest (‘pyproject.toml‘ / ‘requirements*.txt‘ for Python; ‘build. 

,→ gradle.kts‘ / ‘pom.xml‘ for JVM) before guessing commands. - Run a small, fast subset first (one test file or one module) before running the full suite. - When a test fails, read the full traceback and the failing test source before changing code. ## Make minimal changes - Match existing style, naming, and abstractions. Don’t introduce new patterns unless asked. - Prefer fixing the root cause over adding compensating logic elsewhere. - Don’t touch unrelated files. ## Gradle test task conventions The correct test task depends on which Gradle plugin a module uses: | Plugin | Test task | |---|---| | ‘kotlin("jvm")‘ / ‘kotlin.jvm‘ | ‘test‘ | | ‘kotlin("multiplatform")‘ / ‘kotlin.multiplatform‘ | ‘jvmTest‘ | Using the wrong task causes a "task not found" build failure. Check the module’s ‘build.gradle.kts‘ for 

,→ the applied plugin before running tests. ‘‘‘bash # JVM-only module ./gradlew :some-module:test # Multiplatform module ./gradlew :some-module:jvmTest ‘‘‘ ## Source layout conventions - **Multiplatform modules:** ‘src/commonMain/kotlin/‘, ‘src/jvmMain/kotlin/‘, ‘src/jsMain/kotlin/‘, ‘src/ 

,→ jvmTest/kotlin/‘ - **JVM-only modules:** ‘src/main/kotlin/‘, ‘src/test/kotlin/‘ - **Test fixtures:** ‘src/testFixtures/kotlin/‘ ## Kotlin visibility and compilation errors Common compilation errors to watch for: - A ‘private‘ member accessed from another class in the same package –- fix by widening to ‘internal‘. - An ‘internal‘ property with a ‘private‘ setter accessed from outside the object –- the getter visibility 

,→ must also permit access. - An unresolved reference that looks like a property name –- check whether the property actually exists on 

,→ the referenced object; it may have been renamed or never existed. Always verify fixes compile before running tests: ‘‘‘bash ./gradlew compileKotlin # JVM-only module ./gradlew compileKotlinJvm # multiplatform module ‘‘‘ ## JUnit dependency completeness If tests use ‘@ParameterizedTest‘ or ‘@MethodSource‘, the ‘junit-jupiter-params‘ artifact must be 

,→ explicitly on the test classpath –- it is not pulled in transitively by ‘kotlin-test-junit5‘. Add it 

,→ explicitly: ‘‘‘kotlin testImplementation("org.junit.jupiter:junit-jupiter-params:<version>") ‘‘‘ 

D.5 Tool-call-effort skill 

Selected by tool-call effort (a non-empty fallback). A full Tracy map with per-module ./gradlew 

lines. 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific notes learned while working in this codebase. ---

18 ## Repository Identity **Tracy** –- a JetBrains AI Tracing Library for Kotlin/Java. Integrates with OpenTelemetry and 

,→ observability platforms (Langfuse, Weights & Biases). ## Top-Level Layout ‘‘‘ /workspace/repo/ | --- buildSrc/ # Shared Gradle convention plugins | --- docs/ # MkDocs documentation | --- eval/ # Evaluation module (JVM only, kotlin("jvm")) | --- examples/ # Runnable examples | --- plugin/ # Kotlin compiler plugins (versions 1.9.0, 1.9.20, 2.1.0, 2.2.20) + gradle-tracy-

,→ plugin | --- publishing/ # Artifact publishing plugin (composite build) | --- tracing/ # Main library modules | --- build.gradle.kts | --- gradle.properties | --- gradle/libs.versions.toml ‘ --- settings.gradle.kts ‘‘‘ ## Gradle Modules Declared in ‘settings.gradle.kts‘: ‘‘‘ include("eval") include("examples") include("tracing:core") include("tracing:anthropic") include("tracing:gemini") include("tracing:ktor") include("tracing:openai") include("tracing:test-utils") includeBuild("plugin") includeBuild("publishing") ‘‘‘ All ‘tracing:*‘ modules use ‘kotlin("multiplatform")‘ targeting JVM 17. ‘eval‘ uses ‘kotlin("jvm")‘. **Always run ‘./gradlew projects‘ to confirm available subproject names before constructing task paths.** ## Source Layout Convention (Kotlin Multiplatform) Each ‘tracing/*‘ module follows: ‘‘‘ src/ commonMain/kotlin/ # Shared expect declarations jvmMain/kotlin/ # JVM actual implementations jsMain/kotlin/ # JS actual implementations jvmTest/kotlin/ # JVM tests jvmTestFixtures/kotlin/ # Java test fixtures (test-utils module) ‘‘‘ ## Key Module: ‘tracing/core‘ - ‘src/jvmMain/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/‘ - ‘OpenTelemetryOkHttpInterceptor.kt‘ –- ‘patchOpenAICompatibleClient<Client, ClientImpl, ClientOptions, 

,→ ClientOkHttpClient>()‘ injects a custom OkHttp interceptor via reflection - ‘adapters/LLMTracingAdapter.kt‘ –- abstract base for LLM tracing adapters; sets ‘gen_ai.api_base‘, ‘ 

,→ gen_ai.system‘ span attributes - ‘adapters/handlers/EndpointApiHandler.kt‘ –- interface with ‘handleRequestAttributes(span, request)‘ 

,→ and ‘handleResponseAttributes(span, response)‘ - ‘tracing/TracingManager.kt‘ –- singleton ‘object‘; controls ‘isTracingEnabled‘, holds ‘ 

,→ ContentCapturePolicy‘ - ‘src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/tracing/fluent/‘ - ‘KotlinFlowTrace.kt‘ –- ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ annotation - ‘FluentSpanAttributes.kt‘ –- enum of span attribute keys - ‘TracingSessionProvider.kt‘, ‘TracingMetadataConfigurator.kt‘, ‘SpanType.kt‘ - ‘handlers/SpanAttributeHandler.kt‘, ‘handlers/BaseSpanAttributeHandler.kt‘ ## Key Module: ‘tracing/openai‘ - Package root: ‘ai/dev/kit/‘ (or ‘ai/jetbrains/tracy/tracing/‘ depending on repo variant) - ‘adapters/OpenAILLMTracingAdapter.kt‘ –- routes to handler based on request body keys (‘"messages"‘ →

,→ ChatCompletions, ‘"input"‘ → Responses, etc.) - ‘adapters/openai/‘ or ‘adapters/handlers/‘ –- ‘ChatCompletionsHandler‘, ‘ResponsesApiHandler‘, image 

,→ handlers - ‘clients/OpenAIClient.kt‘ –- ‘instrument(client: OpenAIClient): OpenAIClient‘ is the recommended entry 

,→ point for adding tracing 

19 ## Key Module: ‘tracing/anthropic‘ - ‘clients/AnthropicAIClient.kt‘ –- ‘instrument(client: AnthropicClient): AnthropicClient‘ - Pattern for ‘instrument()‘: calls ‘patchOpenAICompatibleClient(...)‘ from ‘tracing-core‘ with a custom 

,→ interceptor ## Key Module: ‘tracing/test-utils‘ - Sources live under ‘src/jvmTestFixtures/kotlin/ai/jetbrains/tracy/test/utils/‘ - ‘BaseOpenTelemetryTracingTest‘ –- sets up ‘InMemorySpanExporter‘, calls ‘TracingManager.setSdk(...)‘, 

,→ enables sensitive content capture in ‘@BeforeTest‘ - ‘BaseAITracingTest‘ –- extends ‘BaseOpenTelemetryTracingTest‘; provides ‘validateBasicTracing(url, model) 

,→ ‘, ‘provideContentCapturePolicies()‘ - ‘MediaSource‘ –- sealed class for file/link media sources ## Build and Test Commands ‘‘‘bash # Build entire project ./gradlew build # Run all non-local tests ./gradlew test # Run tests for a specific module ./gradlew :tracing:openai:jvmTest ./gradlew :tracing:anthropic:jvmTest ./gradlew :tracing:core:jvmTest ./gradlew :tracing:test-utils:check # Compile only (useful to check for errors without running tests) ./gradlew :tracing:openai:compileTestKotlinJvm ./gradlew :tracing:test-utils:compileKotlinJvm # List all available subprojects ./gradlew projects ‘‘‘ ## Test Configuration - All ‘Test‘ tasks use JUnit Platform - Tests tagged ‘SkipForNonLocal‘ are excluded unless ‘-DaiDevKitLocalTests=true‘ (or ‘-DtracyLocalTests= 

,→ true‘) is passed - Integration tests requiring live endpoints (e.g. ‘LITELLM_URL‘, ‘OPENAI_API_KEY‘) are tagged accordingly 

,→ and excluded from CI by default ## Content Capture Policy - ‘ContentCapturePolicy‘ data class in package ‘ai.dev.kit.tracing.policy‘ with fields ‘captureInputs: 

,→ Boolean‘, ‘captureOutputs: Boolean‘ - ‘TracingManager.withCapturingPolicy(policy)‘ –- sets active policy - ‘TracingManager.traceSensitiveContent()‘ –- enables full capture - When ‘captureInputs == false‘, prompt/tool input attributes are set to ‘"REDACTED"‘; when ‘ 

,→ captureOutputs == false‘, completion/output attributes are set to ‘"REDACTED"‘ ## OpenTelemetry Attribute Conventions - Uses ‘GenAiIncubatingAttributes‘ constants: ‘GEN_AI_REQUEST_MODEL‘, ‘GEN_AI_REQUEST_TEMPERATURE‘, ‘ 

,→ GEN_AI_USAGE_INPUT_TOKENS‘, ‘GEN_AI_USAGE_OUTPUT_TOKENS‘ - Custom string attributes: ‘"gen_ai.api_base"‘, ‘"gen_ai.system"‘, ‘"gen_ai.prompt.$index.role"‘, ‘" 

,→ gen_ai.prompt.$index.content"‘, ‘"gen_ai.completion.$index.content"‘, ‘"gen_ai.tool.$index.type/name/ 

,→ description/parameters"‘ - ‘FluentSpanAttributes‘ keys: ‘SPAN_INPUTS("input")‘, ‘SPAN_OUTPUTS("output")‘, ‘SOURCE_RUN("session.id") 

,→ ‘, ‘SPAN_TYPE("spanType")‘, etc. ## Version Catalog (‘gradle/libs.versions.toml‘) –- Key Versions ‘‘‘toml kotlin = "2.1.0" # (may be updated to 2.1.21) kotlinx-coroutines = "1.9.0" kotlinx-serialization = "1.5.1" okhttp = "4.12.0" opentelemetry = "1.51.0" opentelemetry-semconv-incubating = "1.34.0-alpha" junit = "5.10.0" ‘‘‘ ## Convention Plugins (buildSrc) - ‘id("ai.jetbrains.tracy.published-artifact")‘ –- marks module for publishing 

20 - ‘id("org.jetbrains.ai.tracy")‘ –- Tracy compiler plugin integration - ‘id("ai.kotlin.dokka")‘ –- Dokka documentation generation - ‘id("ai.dev.kit.trace")‘ –- enables ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ compiler plugin for a module ## Known Pitfalls - **Gradle lock contention**: if a build fails with "Timeout waiting to lock journal cache", wait for any 

,→ other Gradle process to finish before retrying. - **Subproject naming**: always verify subproject names with ‘./gradlew projects‘ –- names like ‘ai-dev-

,→ kit-tracing-langfuse‘ vs ‘ai-dev-kit-tracking-langfuse‘ have caused errors. - **‘instrument()‘ functions**: each LLM provider module must expose its own ‘instrument(client)‘ function 

,→ in ‘src/jvmMain‘; tests import from the provider-specific package (e.g. ‘ai.dev.kit.clients‘). - **‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ handler**: the ‘attributeHandler‘ field must reference a Kotlin ‘object‘ singleton 

,→ (accessed via ‘.objectInstance‘). - **Coroutine parameters**: ‘BaseSpanAttributeHandler.processInput‘ filters out ‘Continuation‘ parameters 

,→ when building JSON from method arguments. - **‘-java-parameters‘ compiler flag**: required for parameter names to be visible at runtime for tracing. 

D.6 Work-mix skill 

Selected by work-priced efficiency. A leaner module and build guide. 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific guidance for working in this codebase. Always consult before making 

,→ changes. ---# Working in this repository ## Repository overview This is the **AI Development Kit (Tracy)**, a JetBrains open-source Kotlin library for tracing, monitoring, 

,→ and evaluating AI-powered features. It is built on OpenTelemetry and integrates with observability 

,→ backends (Langfuse, W&B Weave, Jaeger, etc.). Build system: **Gradle with Kotlin DSL** throughout. The root project is named ‘tracy‘. ## Module layout Submodules (from ‘settings.gradle.kts‘): - ‘tracing:core‘ –- core tracing, Kotlin Multiplatform (commonMain + jvmMain + jsMain) - ‘tracing:anthropic‘, ‘tracing:gemini‘, ‘tracing:openai‘, ‘tracing:ktor‘ –- AI client adapters - ‘tracing:test-utils‘ –- shared test helpers - ‘eval‘ –- evaluation framework (JVM only) - ‘examples‘ –- runnable examples - ‘plugin/gradle-tracy-plugin‘, ‘plugin/tracy-compiler-plugin-*‘ –- compiler plugins A ‘publishing/‘ directory is included as a composite build. ## Source set conventions **tracing:core** uses Kotlin Multiplatform source sets: - ‘commonMain‘ –- shared API (‘FluentSpanAttributes‘, ‘KotlinFlowTrace‘, ‘TracingSessionProvider‘, ‘ 

,→ SpanMetadataCustomizer‘, etc.) - ‘jvmMain‘ –- JVM ‘actual‘ implementations; ‘PlatformMethod‘ is ‘actual typealias PlatformMethod = java. 

,→ lang.reflect.Method‘ - ‘jsMain‘ –- JS stubs; most functions call ‘TODO("Implementation depends on OpenTelemetry, which is JVM-

,→ only")‘ - ‘jvmTest‘ –- JVM tests under ‘src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/tracing/fluent/‘ **eval** module: ‘src/main/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/eval/utils/‘ and ‘src/main/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/eval/providers/‘ **Package roots:** - Core tracing: ‘ai.dev.kit.tracing.*‘ - Eval framework: ‘ai.dev.kit.eval.utils.*‘, ‘ai.dev.kit.eval.providers.*‘ - AI client adapters: ‘ai.dev.kit.adapters.*‘, ‘ai.dev.kit.clients.*‘ - Examples: ‘ai.dev.kit.examples.*‘ ## Key APIs ### tracing:core –- span creation ‘withSpan‘ (in ‘processor/Utils.kt‘, jvmMain): ‘‘‘kotlin inline fun <T> withSpan( name: String, attributes: Map<String, Any?> = emptyMap(), block: (Span) -> T 

21 ): T ‘‘‘ Uses ‘TracingManager.tracer‘ to build, start, and close spans. Currently calls ‘.toString()‘ on all 

,→ attribute values (‘// TODO: deal with types‘). ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ –- runtime-retention annotation that drives automatic span creation via the compiler 

,→ plugin or interceptor. ‘DefaultSpanMetadataCustomizer‘ –- ‘expect object‘ in commonMain; JVM ‘actual‘ implementation in jvmMain. ### eval –- evaluation framework Core interfaces (package ‘ai.dev.kit.eval.utils‘): - ‘AIInput‘, ‘AIOutput‘, ‘GroundTruth‘ –- marker interfaces - ‘Generator<AIInputT, AIOutputT>‘ –- wraps the AI feature under test; ‘suspend fun generate(input)‘ - ‘Evaluator<GroundTruthT, AIOutputT, EvalResultT>‘ –- ‘fun evaluate(...)‘ + optional ‘fun 

,→ aggregateResults(...)‘ - ‘TestCase<AIInputT, GroundTruthT>‘ –- ‘name‘, ‘input‘, ‘groundTruth‘ - ‘EvalResult‘, ‘SingleScoreEvalResult‘, ‘MultiScoreEvalResult‘ –- result types - ‘AggregateScore(scoreName: String, score: Double)‘ –- data class - ‘LoggingClient‘ –- interface for experiment/run/metric logging; implemented by ‘LangfuseEvaluationClient‘ 

,→

- ‘BaseEvaluationTest‘ –- abstract JUnit 5 base class for multi-run experiments - ‘ConsoleEvaluationTest‘ (in ‘NoLoggingEvaluationTest.kt‘) –- ‘BaseEvaluationTest‘ subclass with no 

,→ external logging ‘getUserIDFromEnv()‘ reads the ‘USER_ID‘ environment variable. ## Discover before editing - Read ‘README.md‘, ‘CONTRIBUTING.md‘, and any ‘AGENTS.md‘ / ‘CLAUDE.md‘ before non-trivial edits. - Use Glob and Grep to locate relevant code paths instead of guessing file names. - When you change a public API, search for all callers first –- especially across ‘commonMain‘/‘jvmMain‘/‘ 

,→ jsMain‘ source sets. - When a symbol is missing, check both ‘commonMain‘ and the platform-specific source set (‘jvmMain‘/‘ 

,→ jsMain‘) before adding it. ## Build and test commands ‘‘‘bash # Compile JVM sources for tracing:core ./gradlew :tracing:core:compileKotlinJvm # Compile JVM test sources for tracing:core ./gradlew :tracing:core:compileTestKotlinJvm # Run JVM tests for tracing:core ./gradlew :tracing:core:jvmTest # Run tests for the eval module ./gradlew :eval:test # Run a specific module’s tests ./gradlew :<module>:jvmTest # multiplatform modules ./gradlew :<module>:test # JVM-only modules ‘‘‘ If Gradle reports ‘Timeout waiting to lock journal cache‘, another Gradle process is running –- wait for 

,→ it to finish before retrying. ## Run tests early and iterate from failures - Run a small, fast subset first (one module) before running the full suite. - When a test fails, read the full error output and the failing test source before changing code. - For ‘compileTestKotlin‘ failures, read the test file to understand what symbols it imports before adding 

,→ or modifying production code. ## Make minimal changes - Match existing style, naming, and abstractions. Don’t introduce new patterns unless asked. - Prefer fixing the root cause over adding compensating logic elsewhere. - Don’t touch unrelated files or source sets. - When adding a constant or function used by tests, place it in the same file/object where related 

,→ constants already live. 

22 D.7 Skill-reading ensemble skill 

Selected by the judge ensemble that reads the SKILL. Onboarding note: repository identity, a directory tree, and TracingManager .

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific notes learned while working in this codebase. ---## Repository Identity This is **Tracy**, a JetBrains AI tracing library for Kotlin and Java. The root project name is ‘tracy‘. ## Top-Level Directory Structure ‘‘‘ /workspace/repo/ | --- buildSrc/ # Shared Gradle convention plugins | --- docs/ # MkDocs-based documentation site | --- eval/ # Evaluation module (LLM/AI evaluation utilities) | --- examples/ # Runnable example code | --- gradle/ # Version catalog (libs.versions.toml), wrapper, init scripts | --- plugin/ # Kotlin compiler plugins (multiple Kotlin versions) + Gradle plugin | --- publishing/ # Included build providing the publishing plugin | --- tracing/ # Core tracing library submodules | --- build.gradle.kts | --- gradle.properties ‘ --- settings.gradle.kts ‘‘‘ ## Module Layout ### ‘tracing/‘ submodules - ‘tracing/core‘ –- core OpenTelemetry-based tracing abstractions - ‘tracing/openai‘ –- OpenAI adapter - ‘tracing/anthropic‘ –- Anthropic adapter - ‘tracing/gemini‘ –- Gemini adapter - ‘tracing/ktor‘ –- Ktor HTTP client adapter - ‘tracing/test-utils‘ –- shared test base classes (internal use only; structured as Java test fixtures) ### ‘plugin/‘ submodules Compiler plugins for multiple Kotlin versions plus ‘gradle-tracy-plugin‘. ## Package Naming ‘‘‘ org.jetbrains.ai.tracy.<subproject-specific-suffix> ‘‘‘ Provider-specific code uses: ‘ai.jetbrains.tracy.<provider>.*‘ Core/shared code may use: ‘ai.dev.kit.*‘ (legacy prefix, still present in some modules) ## Source Set Conventions (Kotlin Multiplatform) All ‘tracing/‘ modules use Kotlin Multiplatform: - ‘src/commonMain/kotlin/‘ –- shared cross-platform code; ‘expect‘ declarations go here - ‘src/jvmMain/kotlin/‘ –- JVM ‘actual‘ implementations and JVM-specific code - ‘src/jsMain/kotlin/‘ –- JS ‘actual‘ implementations (often stubs throwing ‘NotImplementedError‘) - ‘src/jvmTest/kotlin/‘ –- JVM tests - ‘src/jvmTestFixtures/kotlin/‘ –- Java test fixtures (used by ‘test-utils‘) When adding a new cross-platform abstraction: 1. Declare ‘expect class‘/‘expect object‘/‘expect fun‘ in ‘commonMain‘. 2. Provide ‘actual‘ in both ‘jvmMain‘ (full implementation) and ‘jsMain‘ (stub or real). JVM-only modules (e.g., ‘eval/‘) use ‘src/main/kotlin/‘ and ‘src/test/kotlin/‘. ## Build System - **Build tool:** Gradle with Kotlin DSL - **Version catalog:** ‘gradle/libs.versions.toml‘ –- all dependency versions go here - **JVM toolchain:** Java 17 (‘jvmToolchain(17)‘, ‘compilerOptions.jvmTarget = JVM_17‘) - ‘publishing/‘ is an included build via ‘pluginManagement { includeBuild("publishing") }‘ in ‘settings. 

,→ gradle.kts‘ - ‘buildSrc/‘ contains precompiled script convention plugins (e.g., ‘ai.kotlin.dokka.gradle.kts‘) ### Running tests | Module type | Task | |---|---| 

23 | Kotlin Multiplatform module | ‘./gradlew :tracing:core:jvmTest‘ | | JVM-only module | ‘./gradlew :eval:test‘ | | Check (compile + test) | ‘./gradlew :tracing:core:check‘ | Only one Gradle daemon should run at a time; concurrent Gradle processes contend on ‘~/.gradle/caches/ 

,→ journal-1‘. ### Test conventions - JUnit 5 with ‘useJUnitPlatform()‘ throughout. - Tests tagged ‘@Tag("SkipForNonLocal")‘ require live LLM endpoints and are excluded in CI. - ‘BaseOpenTelemetryTracingTest‘ –- abstract base class that sets up an ‘InMemorySpanExporter‘ and ‘ 

,→ TracingManager‘; calls ‘TracingManager.traceSensitiveContent()‘ in ‘@BeforeTest‘ so span-content 

,→ assertions remain valid. - ‘BaseAITracingTest‘ –- extends ‘BaseOpenTelemetryTracingTest‘ with AI-specific helpers. - Consumer modules reference ‘test-utils‘ via ‘testFixtures()‘ notation: ‘‘‘kotlin testImplementation(testFixtures(project(":tracing:test-utils"))) ‘‘‘ ## Key Architectural Patterns ### OpenTelemetry tracing - ‘TracingManager‘ (object in ‘tracing/core‘) is the central singleton. Use ‘TracingManager.tracer‘ to 

,→ obtain a ‘Tracer‘ –- never call ‘GlobalOpenTelemetry.getTracer()‘ directly. - ‘TracingManager.withCapturingPolicy(policy: ContentCapturePolicy)‘ controls content redaction. - ‘TracingManager.traceSensitiveContent()‘ opts in to capturing both inputs and outputs (used in tests). - ‘@KotlinFlowTrace(name, spanType, attributeHandler)‘ annotation instruments functions as OT spans ( 

,→ applied at compile time by the compiler plugin). ### LLM tracing adapters - ‘LLMTracingAdapter‘ (in ‘tracing/core/src/jvmMain/‘) is the abstract base for all provider adapters. - Subclasses implement ‘getRequestBodyAttributes(span, url, body)‘ and ‘getResponseBodyAttributes(span, 

,→ body)‘. - Span attribute constants come from ‘io.opentelemetry.semconv.incubating.GenAiIncubatingAttributes.*‘. - Each provider has an ‘instrument(client)‘ top-level function as the recommended entry point. ### Reflection-based interceptor injection - ‘patchOpenAICompatibleClient‘ in ‘tracing/core/src/jvmMain/‘ uses reflection to inject an OkHttp 

,→ interceptor into the SDK’s internal client. - **When upgrading OpenAI or Anthropic SDK versions**, verify the internal field names accessed by 

,→ reflection (‘okHttpClient‘, ‘originalHttpClient‘, ‘httpClient‘) still match the new SDK class hierarchy. 

,→

- Both ‘OpenAIClient.kt‘ and ‘AnthropicAIClient.kt‘ follow the same pattern and must be kept in sync. ### expect/actual renaming When renaming an ‘expect‘/‘actual‘ function or constant, update **all** of: 1. The ‘expect‘ declaration in ‘commonMain‘ 2. All ‘actual‘ implementations in ‘jvmMain‘ and ‘jsMain‘ 3. All call sites and imports in test files (‘jvmTest‘) 4. Any documentation referencing the old name Use ‘grep -r ’OldName’ .‘ to find all references before and after a rename. ## Dependency Management All library versions are centralized in ‘gradle/libs.versions.toml‘. Never hardcode versions in ‘build. 

,→ gradle.kts‘ files –- always add a version entry to the catalog and reference it via ‘libs.*‘ aliases. Key aliases include: ‘libs.opentelemetry‘, ‘libs.opentelemetry.semconv.incubating‘, ‘libs.openai‘, ‘libs. 

,→ anthropic‘, ‘libs.gemini‘, ‘libs.okhttp‘, ‘libs.kotlinx.serialization.core‘, ‘libs.kotlinx.coroutines‘. ## Module Registration Every subproject must be registered in ‘settings.gradle.kts‘ with ‘include("path:to:module")‘ before it 

,→ can be referenced as a Gradle project dependency. Run ‘./gradlew projects‘ to list all currently 

,→ registered subprojects. If an included build path changes (e.g., ‘includeBuild("publishing")‘), the path in ‘settings.gradle.kts‘ 

,→ must be updated to match, or all Gradle invocations will fail. ## Publishing Published modules apply ‘id("ai.jetbrains.tracy.published-artifact")‘. The ‘test-utils‘ module is **not** 

,→ published externally. The publishing plugin is provided by the ‘publishing/‘ included build. ## Documentation - User docs: MkDocs with Material theme, configured in ‘docs/mkdocs.yml‘. - API docs: Dokka (‘ai.kotlin.dokka‘ convention plugin applied per module). - Code snippets in docs are verified with Kotlin Knit (‘docs/knit.properties‘); generated sources go to ‘ 

,→ docs/src/‘. 

24 - To serve docs locally: ‘cd docs && uv sync --frozen --all-extras && uv run mkdocs serve‘. 

D.8 File-facts skill ( gmu )

Selected by grounding × density. A verifiable module list and the jvmTest versus test rule. 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific guidance for working in this codebase. Always consult before making 

,→ changes. ---# Working in this repository ## Discover before editing - Read the project’s README, CONTRIBUTING.md, and any AGENTS.md / CLAUDE.md before non-trivial edits. - Use Glob and Grep to locate relevant code paths instead of guessing file names. - When you change a public API, search for all callers first. ## Run tests early and iterate from failures - Find the test runner from the build manifest (‘pyproject.toml‘ / ‘requirements*.txt‘ for Python; ‘build. 

,→ gradle.kts‘ / ‘pom.xml‘ for JVM) before guessing commands. - Run a small, fast subset first (one test file or one module) before running the full suite. - When a test fails, read the full traceback and the failing test source before changing code. ## Make minimal changes - Match existing style, naming, and abstractions. Don’t introduce new patterns unless asked. - Prefer fixing the root cause over adding compensating logic elsewhere. - Don’t touch unrelated files. ## Project structure This repository is a multi-module Gradle project (Kotlin DSL). Modules observed across instances include: ‘‘‘ ai-dev-kit-eval ai-dev-kit-example ai-dev-kit-plugin ai-dev-kit-test-base ai-dev-kit-tracing ← Kotlin Multiplatform (JVM + JS) ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers:ai-dev-kit-tracking-langfuse ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers:ai-dev-kit-tracking-mlflow ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers:ai-dev-kit-tracking-wandb ‘‘‘ The tracing module may appear as ‘ai-dev-kit-tracing/‘ at the root or nested under ‘tracing/tracing-core/‘ 

,→ –- verify with ‘ls‘ or ‘find‘ before assuming a path. ## Critical: test task names differ by module type **‘ai-dev-kit-tracing‘ is a Kotlin Multiplatform module** –- its JVM test task is ‘jvmTest‘, not ‘test‘: ‘‘‘bash ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-tracing:jvmTest ‘‘‘ **All other modules** use the standard JVM plugin and the standard ‘test‘ task: ‘‘‘bash ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-eval:test ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-test-base:test ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers:ai-dev-kit-tracking-langfuse:test ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers:ai-dev-kit-tracking-mlflow:test ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers:ai-dev-kit-tracking-wandb:test ‘‘‘ Never use ‘jvmTest‘ on ‘ai-dev-kit-test-base‘ or the tracking-provider modules –- it will fail with "task 

,→ not found". ## Test tag conventions - ‘@Tag("SkipForNonLocal")‘ marks tests that require live external services (Langfuse, MLflow, W&B, 

,→ LiteLLM). These are excluded in CI via the ‘aiDevKitLocalTests‘ system property set in the root ‘build. 

,→ gradle.kts‘. - To run local-only tests: ‘./gradlew test -DaiDevKitLocalTests=true‘ - All tests in the ‘ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers‘ submodules are tagged ‘SkipForNonLocal‘ and will not 

,→ run in a standard offline environment. ## Module: ‘ai-dev-kit-tracing‘ Kotlin Multiplatform module (JVM + JS). Source layout: 

25 ‘‘‘ src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/tracing/fluent/ # expect declarations src/jvmMain/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/tracing/fluent/ # actual JVM implementations src/jsMain/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/tracing/fluent/ # JS stubs (most throw NotImplementedError) ‘‘‘ ### Key APIs **‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘** –- annotation for tracing functions; parameters: ‘name‘ (span name), ‘spanType‘, ‘ 

,→ attributeHandler: KClass<out SpanAttributeHandler>‘. Does not work with ‘suspend‘ functions in some 

,→ configurations; check the README for current status. **‘TracingFlowProcessor‘** (JVM object) –- must call ‘setup()‘ / ‘setupTracing(di)‘ before tracing is 

,→ active. Holds a ‘CoroutineScope(Dispatchers.IO + SupervisorJob())‘ and a Kodein ‘DI‘ container. **‘TracePublisher‘** interface –- ‘suspend fun publishTrace(trace: List<SpanData>)‘ **‘TracingSessionProvider‘** (expect object) –- ‘currentProjectId‘ and ‘currentSessionId‘; use ‘ 

,→ withProjectId(id) { ... }‘ to scope tracing. JVM implementation uses OpenTelemetry ‘ContextKey‘. **‘withTrace‘ / ‘withTraceSuspended‘** (jvmMain) –- retrieve ‘TracingMetadataConfigurator‘ from DI, 

,→ require ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘, record exceptions with ‘span.recordException‘ and ‘StatusCode.ERROR‘. 

,→ Prefer ‘withSpan()‘ over the deprecated ‘withTrace()‘. **‘RootSpanExporter‘** –- groups spans by ‘traceId‘; publishes the complete trace when the root span (no 

,→ valid ‘parentSpanId‘) finishes. **‘FluentSpanAttributes‘** enum (commonMain) –- attribute keys including: ‘SPAN_INPUTS‘, ‘SPAN_OUTPUTS‘, ‘ 

,→ SPAN_FUNCTION_NAME‘, ‘SPAN_SOURCE_NAME‘, ‘SOURCE_RUN‘, ‘TRACE_CREATION_INFO‘, ‘SPAN_TYPE‘, ‘TRACE_TAGS‘. 

,→ The ‘actual fun SpanData.getAttribute(...)‘ extension is in jvmMain. If you add a new enum entry, add 

,→ it to ‘commonMain‘ and ensure jvmMain/jsMain ‘actual‘ implementations handle it. **‘BaseSpanAttributeHandler‘** / ‘SpanAttributeHandler‘ –- interface with ‘processInput(method, args)‘ and 

,→ ‘processOutput(result)‘. JVM actual serializes parameters to JSON (excluding ‘Continuation‘ parameters 

,→ ). ### Multiplatform expect/actual pattern - ‘commonMain‘ holds ‘expect‘ declarations (interfaces, classes, functions, objects). - ‘jvmMain‘ holds ‘actual‘ implementations backed by OpenTelemetry SDK and ‘java.lang.reflect‘. - ‘jsMain‘ holds stub ‘actual‘ implementations; most throw ‘NotImplementedError()‘ or ‘TODO()‘. - All source sets require the ‘-Xexpected-actual-classes‘ compiler argument. - When adding a new ‘expect‘ declaration, provide ‘actual‘ implementations in both ‘jvmMain‘ and ‘jsMain‘. ## Module: ‘ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers‘ Three JVM-only provider submodules (Langfuse, MLflow, W&B). Each follows the same pattern: - ‘*DiContainer‘ –- Kodein DI object binding ‘TracePublisher‘ and ‘TracingMetadataConfigurator‘ as 

,→ singletons. - ‘Setup*Tracing.kt‘ –- entry-point function (e.g. ‘setupLangfuseTracing(...)‘) that calls ‘ 

,→ TracingFlowProcessor.setupTracing(di)‘. - ‘*TracePublisher‘ –- reads ‘FluentSpanAttributes‘ from spans and POSTs to the provider’s API. - ‘*TracingMetadataConfigurator‘ –- implements ‘TracingMetadataConfigurator‘. ## Module: ‘ai-dev-kit-test-base‘ JVM-only module providing abstract test fixture base classes consumed by provider test modules: ‘‘‘ src/testFixtures/kotlin/ai/dev/kit/fluent/ | --- TestFluentTracingBase.kt | --- TestSuspendFluentTracingBase.kt ‘ --- TestAutologTracingBase.kt ‘‘‘ ## Module: ‘ai-dev-kit-eval‘ Evaluation framework. Key types: ‘BaseEvaluationTest‘, ‘EvaluationClient‘, ‘Evaluator‘, ‘Generator‘, ‘ 

,→ TestCase‘, ‘EvalResult‘, ‘AggregateScore‘, ‘EvalUtils‘. ‘BaseEvaluationTest‘ is annotated ‘@TestInstance(TestInstance.Lifecycle.PER_CLASS)‘ and integrates with 

,→ OpenTelemetry and coroutines. Subclasses provide type parameters for input, output, ground truth, and 

,→ eval result. ## Common compilation pitfalls - **Private constants referenced across files**: if a constant is ‘private‘ in its declaring object, other 

,→ files cannot access it. Change to ‘internal‘ or expose via a method. 

26 - **‘private set‘ on mutable state**: a field declared ‘internal var‘ with ‘private set‘ cannot be 

,→ assigned from outside the declaring object, even from the same package. Remove ‘private set‘ or add an 

,→ internal update function. - **Missing enum entries**: if JVM code references a ‘FluentSpanAttributes‘ entry (e.g. ‘TRACE_TAGS‘) that 

,→ is absent from the ‘commonMain‘ enum, compilation fails with "Unresolved reference". Always add new 

,→ entries to ‘commonMain‘. - **Unresolved references to mutable state**: verify that fields like ‘currentRunId‘ or ‘ 

,→ currentExperimentId‘ are actually declared in the object before referencing them. - **Missing test dependencies**: ‘junit-jupiter-params‘ is not always transitively included; add it 

,→ explicitly if using ‘@ParameterizedTest‘. - **‘-java-parameters‘ compiler flag**: required to make method parameter names visible at runtime for 

,→ tracing annotation processing. - **JS stubs**: jsMain ‘actual‘ implementations intentionally throw; do not add real logic there unless 

,→ explicitly targeting JS. 

D.9 File-policy skill ( ideal )

Selected by the gated policy mix. Compile and test playbooks and the @KotlinFlowTrace object 

rule. 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific guidance for working in this codebase. Always consult before making 

,→ changes. ---# Working in this repository ## Discover before editing - Read the project’s README, CONTRIBUTING.md, and any AGENTS.md / CLAUDE.md before non-trivial edits. - Use Glob and Grep to locate relevant code paths instead of guessing file names. - When you change a public API, search for all callers first. - Only assert facts you can verify by reading actual files. Do not assume function signatures, class 

,→ members, or package names without reading the relevant source file first. ## Run tests early and iterate from failures - Find the test runner from the build manifest (‘build.gradle.kts‘) before guessing commands. - Run the relevant test task early –- failing test names and assertions are the fastest way to determine 

,→ what code needs to be written or fixed. - Run a small, fast subset first (one test file or one module) before running the full suite. - When a test fails, read the full error output and the failing test source before changing code. ## Make minimal changes - Match existing style, naming, and abstractions. Don’t introduce new patterns unless asked. - Prefer fixing the root cause over adding compensating logic elsewhere. - Don’t touch unrelated files. Never create new files unless the task explicitly requests them. ## Repository structure This is a JVM/Kotlin project built with Gradle (Kotlin DSL). Depending on the variant you are working in, 

,→ the layout may be a single module or a multi-module project: **Single-module layout:** root contains ‘build.gradle.kts‘, ‘gradle.properties‘, and ‘src/‘. **Multi-module layout:** root contains ‘build.gradle.kts‘ and named subproject directories (e.g. ‘tracing 

,→ /‘, ‘eval/‘). Each subproject has its own ‘build.gradle.kts‘. Build and test commands: - Compile main sources: ‘./gradlew compileKotlin‘ - Compile test sources: ‘./gradlew compileTestKotlin‘ - Run tests: ‘./gradlew test‘ - Full build: ‘./gradlew build‘ For multi-module projects: - Kotlin Multiplatform modules use ‘./gradlew :<module>:jvmTest‘ - Plain JVM modules use ‘./gradlew :<module>:test‘ - If unsure, run ‘./gradlew :<module>:tasks‘ first A change is not complete until the relevant test task reports BUILD SUCCESSFUL. ## Scoping exploration to the relevant module Before reading any files, identify which module is relevant to the task by reading the task description 

,→ and mapping it to a specific subproject directory. Stay within that module during exploration; do not 

,→ read unrelated modules unless the task explicitly involves them. - Identify the module first, then explore only its source sets. - When a symbol appears unresolved in a test file, search for its definition within that module’s ‘src/‘ 

,→ tree (checking ‘commonMain‘, ‘jvmMain‘, and any subdirectories) before looking elsewhere. 

27 - Verify that any function or extension you add or reference is exported from the correct source set and 

,→ package so the test source set can see it. ## Visibility and access conventions - ‘internal object‘ members accessed from other files in the same module must be at least ‘internal‘, not ‘ 

,→ private‘. - A property setter can have narrower visibility than the getter (e.g. ‘internal var foo: String = "0"\n 

,→ private set‘). - If ‘compileKotlin‘ fails with _"Cannot access ’...’: it is private"_, locate the declaration with ‘grep -

,→ r ’SYMBOL_NAME’ --include=’*.kt’ src/‘ and widen its visibility modifier. - For a single-modifier fix, skip broad exploration: grep → edit → ‘./gradlew compileKotlin‘. ## API-change discipline When adding, removing, or renaming a parameter on any function, method, or interface: 1. Grep the entire source tree for all call sites **and all implementing classes** before editing. 2. Update every call site and every implementor in the same change. 3. Update any README or documentation files that reference the symbol. 4. Verify compilation with ‘./gradlew compileKotlin‘ before running tests. When an interface method is renamed or a new method is added, use ‘grep‘ for the interface name (not only 

,→ the method name) to locate every implementor across the repository. A partial update causes a 

,→ compilation failure that blocks all tests. ## Kotlin Multiplatform (‘expect‘/‘actual‘) When adding or modifying an API in ‘commonMain‘, provide a corresponding ‘actual‘ implementation in ** 

,→ every** target source set (‘jvmMain‘, ‘jsMain‘, etc.). Forgetting an ‘actual‘ declaration causes a 

,→ compilation error. Before any rename, search all source sets simultaneously: ‘‘‘ grep -r OLD_NAME --include="*.kt" src/ ‘‘‘ This surfaces occurrences in ‘commonMain‘, ‘jvmMain‘, ‘jsMain‘, and all test source sets at once. Do not 

,→ rely on partial searches that might miss a source set. ## Tracing and annotation conventions - ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ attribute handlers must be Kotlin ‘object‘ singletons (not classes); the JVM 

,→ implementation calls ‘.objectInstance‘ and errors if it is null. - Call ‘TracingFlowProcessor.setup()‘ (or ‘TracingManager.setup()‘) before using any traced method. - Tracing does not work with ‘suspend‘ functions. - Compile with ‘-java-parameters‘ to make parameter names visible at runtime in traces. ## Test dependencies Before editing ‘build.gradle.kts‘, read all test source imports to identify required artifacts: ‘‘‘ grep -r ’^import’ src/test/kotlin/ | sort -u ‘‘‘ Cross-reference every import against the dependencies already declared in ‘build.gradle.kts‘. Any import 

,→ whose artifact is not present must be added as a ‘testImplementation‘ dependency before compilation. - ‘org.junit.jupiter.params.*‘ requires ‘junit-jupiter-params‘ (not included transitively by ‘kotlin-test-

,→ junit5‘). - Testcontainers usage (‘@Testcontainers‘, ‘GenericContainer‘, ‘@Container‘, ‘Wait‘) requires ‘org. 

,→ testcontainers:testcontainers‘ and ‘org.testcontainers:junit-jupiter‘. - ‘com.github.dockerjava‘ types (‘ExposedPort‘, ‘HostConfig‘, ‘Ports‘) require ‘com.github.docker-java: 

,→ docker-java-api‘. - Match the version of any newly added artifact to what is already resolved: ‘./gradlew dependencies --

,→ configuration testRuntimeClasspath‘. After adding dependencies, verify with ‘./gradlew compileTestKotlin‘ before running tests. ## Resolving compilation errors When ‘compileKotlin‘ or ‘compileTestKotlin‘ fails with "Unresolved reference": 1. Read the exact unresolved symbol names from the compiler errors. 2. Find every file that imports or references those symbols. 3. Determine whether the fix belongs in production source (most common) or test source. 4. Search for where the symbol should be defined, guided by how it is used at the call sites. 5. Add or correct the definition, then re-run the compile task to confirm the error is gone. 6. Do not consider the change complete until compilation succeeds and tests pass. ## Diagnosing test failures When a test fails: 1. Read the failing test’s assertions first to understand exactly what value, format, or behavior is 

,→ expected. 

28 2. Follow the call chain from the assertion back into production code –- for example, if a test checks a 

,→ serialized string, read the ‘@SerialName‘ annotations and serialization logic; if it checks span 

,→ attributes, read the attribute keys and how they are set. 3. Form a hypothesis about the root cause before editing. If the root cause is ambiguous, read one more 

,→ layer of the call chain to reduce uncertainty. 4. After making a change, run the affected test to verify the fix. If it still fails, re-read the 

,→ assertion and revise the hypothesis rather than making additional speculative edits. 

29 E GEPA generated SKILL for koog 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific notes for the Koog AI agent framework (Kotlin Multiplatform). ---## Repository shape Koog is a Gradle multi-module Kotlin Multiplatform project. Top-level areas: - ‘agents/‘ --- ‘agents-core‘, ‘agents-tools‘, ‘agents-ext‘, ‘agents-mcp‘, ‘agents-mcp-server‘, ‘agents-

,→ features‘, ‘agents-test‘, ‘agents-planner‘, ‘agents-cli‘, ‘agents-utils‘, ‘agents-mcp-metadata‘. - ‘prompt/‘ --- ‘prompt-model‘, ‘prompt-llm‘, ‘prompt-executor‘, ‘prompt-processor‘, ‘prompt-tokenizer‘, ‘ 

,→ prompt-structure‘, ‘prompt-cache‘, ‘prompt-markdown‘, ‘prompt-xml‘. - ‘prompt/prompt-executor/‘ --- ‘prompt-executor-model‘, ‘prompt-executor-cached‘, ‘prompt-executor-llms-

,→ all‘, and ‘prompt-executor-clients/‘ (one module per provider: OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, Bedrock, 

,→ Ollama, OpenRouter, DashScope, DeepSeek, MistralAI, LiteRT, plus the shared ‘prompt-executor-openai-

,→ client-base‘). - ‘http-client/‘ --- ‘http-client-core‘, ‘http-client-java‘, ‘http-client-ktor‘, ‘http-client-okhttp‘, ‘ 

,→ http-client-spring-webclient‘, ‘http-client-test‘. - Other areas: ‘serialization/‘, ‘embeddings/‘, ‘rag/‘, ‘integration-tests/‘, ‘koog-ktor/‘, ‘koog-spring-

,→ boot-starter/‘, ‘koog-agents/‘, ‘koog-agents-additions/‘, ‘examples/‘, ‘docs/‘, ‘convention-plugin-ai/‘. 

,→

Root docs to consult: ‘CLAUDE.md‘ (project overview, build commands), ‘TESTING.md‘ (quality gates), ‘ 

,→ CONTRIBUTING.md‘, ‘CHANGELOG.md‘. ‘settings.gradle.kts‘ is the authoritative list of subproject paths 

,→ --- check it before trusting any hardcoded path in a build script. ## Kotlin Multiplatform source sets KMP modules use standard source sets: ‘commonMain‘, ‘commonTest‘, plus target-specific sets such as ‘ 

,→ jvmMain‘, ‘jvmTest‘, ‘jvmCommonMain‘ (shared JVM+Android), ‘nonJvmCommonMain‘, ‘jsMain‘. - Only reference APIs available in the source set you are editing. Anything in ‘commonMain‘ must compile 

,→ for every target the module declares. - Before adding an import in ‘commonMain‘/‘jvmCommonMain‘, confirm the referenced symbol is visible from 

,→ that source set and that the module’s ‘build.gradle.kts‘ exposes the dependency to it. Symptom of a 

,→ missing dep: ‘Unresolved reference‘ on ‘compileKotlinJvm‘ or another target compile task. - Public API surface is tracked under ‘api/‘ per module, with per-target files (e.g. ‘api/jvm/<module>.api 

,→ ‘, ‘api/<module>.klib.api‘). Signature changes surface there. ## Working principles 1. **Ground public-API claims in the ‘api/‘ files.** When a task hinges on a signature, node factory, DSL 

,→ entry, or provider-client shape, read ‘api/*.api‘ and ‘api/*.klib.api‘ in that module before trusting 

,→ the problem statement, docs, notebooks, or examples --- those can lag behind. 2. **Respect source-set boundaries.** When you change an ‘expect‘, update every ‘actual‘ in the same 

,→ commit; when you touch a ‘commonMain‘ file, verify new imports are legal for every declared target. 3. **Respect module-dependency direction.** ‘agents-tools‘ does not depend on ‘agents-core‘; provider 

,→ clients depend on ‘prompt-model‘ and ‘http-client-core‘, not the reverse. Do not invert these. 4. **Verify with a scoped compile before a full run.** For cross-source-set changes, ‘./gradlew :<path>:< 

,→ module>:jvmTestClasses‘ (and a non-JVM compile task where relevant) is the fastest way to catch ‘expect 

,→ ‘/‘actual‘ and dependency mistakes. 5. **When you edit an aggregator build script (‘koog-agents‘, ‘koog-agents-additions‘), build both.** They 

,→ share structure and rely on convention plugins from ‘convention-plugin-ai/‘; a change to shared 

,→ imports/utilities in one can break sibling script compilation. 6. **Never commit secrets.** API keys for integration tests are supplied via environment variables. ## expect/actual sync When a declaration is ‘expect‘ in ‘commonMain‘, every ‘actual‘ in ‘jvmCommonMain‘, ‘nonJvmCommonMain‘, or 

,→ a target-specific set must match its parameter list and defaults exactly. A common pattern is an ‘ 

,→ expect class‘ with target-specific extra members (e.g. JVM-only mutable properties) and a target-

,→ specific ‘internal actual fun copy(...)‘; changing the constructor or a ‘copy‘ extension in one place 

,→ requires replicating it in the others, or dependent callers fail to compile. Verify with ‘./gradlew :<path>:<module>:jvmTestClasses‘ plus a non-JVM compile task if the module has non-

,→ JVM targets. ## HTTP client abstraction ‘KoogHttpClient‘ (in ‘http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/‘) is the shared HTTP contract. It 

,→ extends ‘AutoCloseable‘ and exposes ‘clientName‘, ‘get‘, ‘post‘, ‘sse‘, ‘lines‘. Its nested ‘Factory. 

,→ create(...)‘ takes ‘clientName, baseUrl, headers, queryParameters, requestTimeoutMillis, 

,→ connectTimeoutMillis, socketTimeoutMillis, json‘, with default timeout constants on ‘KoogHttpClient. 

,→ Factory.Companion‘. Conventions across the implementation modules (‘http-client-java‘, ‘http-client-okhttp‘, ‘http-client-ktor 

,→ ‘, ‘http-client-spring-webclient‘): 

30 - The client class has an ‘internal constructor‘ and a public nested ‘Factory : KoogHttpClient.Factory‘. - Factories are discovered on JVM via ‘ServiceLoader‘. Register a factory under ‘META-INF/services/ai.koog. 

,→ http.client.KoogHttpClient$Factory‘ in the appropriate resources directory (‘src/main/resources/‘ for 

,→ JVM-only modules, ‘src/jvmMain/resources/‘ for KMP modules). - ‘HttpClientFactoryResolver‘ (in ‘http-client-core/src/jvmCommonMain‘) resolves the default factory; 

,→ provider clients’ ‘*.jvmCommon.kt‘ factory helpers call it when no explicit factory is supplied. - Header merging uses ‘mergeHeaders(...)‘ from ‘http-client-core‘ utils (case-insensitive; pass groups in 

,→ ascending precedence order). ‘KoogHttpClient.kt‘ is in ‘commonMain‘ --- new imports must be legal for every target. ## LLM provider clients (‘prompt-executor-clients‘) When adding or modifying a provider client, match the existing shape: - Public ‘LLMClient‘ implementation (in ‘commonMain‘ or ‘jvmMain‘), plus a ‘*.jvmCommon.kt‘ factory helper 

,→ (often ‘@file:JvmName("...Factory")‘) that resolves a default ‘KoogHttpClient.Factory‘ via ‘ 

,→ HttpClientFactoryResolver‘. - Settings data class carrying ‘baseUrl‘, path fragments, and a ‘ConnectionTimeoutConfig‘. - Constructors take an explicit ‘KoogHttpClient‘ (or a raw Ktor ‘HttpClient‘) plus settings; overloads 

,→ that accept a ‘KoogHttpClient.Factory‘ and build the client internally are common. - ‘execute(...)‘ for non-streaming, ‘executeStreaming(...)‘ for SSE. Streaming clients feed frames into 

,→ the ‘StreamFrame‘ machinery in ‘prompt-model‘. - Operations a provider does not support throw ‘UnsupportedOperationException‘. - If a new ‘KoogHttpClient.Factory‘ is introduced, register it via a ‘ServiceLoader‘ SPI file (see HTTP 

,→ client section). OpenAI-compatible clients share ‘AbstractOpenAILLMClient‘ and models under ‘prompt-executor-openai-client-

,→ base‘. Provider-client JSON is typically configured with ‘JsonNamingStrategy.SnakeCase‘, ‘ignoreUnknownKeys = 

,→ true‘, ‘isLenient = true‘, ‘encodeDefaults = true‘, ‘explicitNulls = false‘. ## Streaming frames (‘prompt-model‘) The streaming contract lives in ‘ai.koog.prompt.streaming‘ in ‘prompt/prompt-model/src/commonMain/‘. 

,→ Before wiring or asserting on a frame variant, open ‘StreamFrame.kt‘ to confirm the exact constructor 

,→ parameters --- reasoning frames in particular carry both an ‘id‘ and a ‘content‘/‘text‘ distinction 

,→ between ‘ReasoningDelta‘ and ‘ReasoningComplete‘. - ‘StreamFrame‘ is a sealed interface with ‘TextDelta‘/‘TextComplete‘, ‘ReasoningDelta‘/‘ReasoningComplete 

,→ ‘, ‘ToolCallDelta‘/‘ToolCallComplete‘, ‘End‘, and ‘CompleteFrame‘/‘DeltaFrame‘ sub-interfaces. - ‘StreamFrameFlowBuilder‘ accumulates deltas; tool-call state is tracked via ‘emitToolCallDelta(id, name, 

,→ args, index)‘ / ‘emitToolCallComplete(...)‘ / ‘tryEmitPendingToolCall()‘. Error cases are modelled in 

,→ ‘StreamFrameFlowBuilderError‘. - Entry points: ‘buildStreamFrameFlow { ... emitEnd() }‘ and ‘streamFrameFlow { ... }‘. - Providers that emit fully-formed tool calls per chunk should call ‘emitToolCallComplete‘ directly rather 

,→ than feeding deltas through the accumulator. - Streaming clients that need token counts must accumulate usage across events and attach it to ‘ 

,→ ResponseMetaInfo‘ on the final ‘End‘ frame; per-chunk usage is often partial. - ‘requireEndFrame()‘ throws ‘IncompleteStreamException‘ if a flow completes without an ‘End‘ --- use it 

,→ to detect transports (e.g. Ktor SSE) that swallow errors as normal completion. Streaming tests use ‘runTest‘, collect the flow with ‘.toList()‘, and assert with ‘assertContentEquals‘ / ‘ 

,→ assertFailsWith‘. ## Tools (‘agents-tools‘, ‘agents-ext‘, ‘agents-core‘) - ‘ToolBase<TArgs, TResult>‘ (‘agents-tools/src/commonMain/.../ToolBase.kt‘) is the abstract runtime 

,→ contract; the agent runtime calls ‘execute‘ with typed args and ‘ToolCallMetadata‘. - ‘Tool<TArgs, TResult>‘ extends ‘ToolBase‘ with the no-metadata ‘execute(args)‘ shape used by most tools. - ‘SimpleTool<TArgs>‘ is a further simplification for tools that return text. - ‘AgentContextAwareTool‘ (in ‘agents-core‘, package ‘ai.koog.agents.core.agent.tools‘) is the subclass to 

,→ use when a tool needs typed access to the live ‘AIAgentContext‘. It lives in ‘agents-core‘ so that ‘ 

,→ agents-tools‘ stays independent of ‘agents-core‘ --- do not invert that direction. - ‘ToolRegistry‘ uses a builder DSL (‘ToolRegistry { tool(MyTool()) }‘) and supports merging with ‘+‘. When implementing a tool: - Keep the ‘suspend fun execute(args: Args): Result‘ shape from ‘Tool<TArgs, TResult>‘. ‘name‘/‘ 

,→ description‘/‘argsSerializer‘/‘resultSerializer‘ are configured via constructor arguments (usually a ‘ 

,→ ToolDescriptor‘), not overridden. - Results shown to the LLM as text extend ‘ToolResult.TextSerializable‘ and override ‘textForLLM()‘. Text-

,→ serialization helpers live in ‘ToolResultUtils‘. - File/shell tools in ‘agents-ext/src/commonMain/.../tool/file‘ and ‘.../tool/shell‘ are parameterised on 

,→ a ‘Path‘ type and take a ‘FileSystemProvider.ReadOnly<Path>‘ / ‘ReadWrite<Path>‘ from ‘ai.koog.rag.base. 

,→ files‘. ## Agent DSL: nodes, edges, strategies (‘agents-core‘) 

31 - Node factory functions live in ‘agents/agents-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/agents/core/dsl/ 

,→ extension/AIAgentNodes.kt‘. String-input node families are prefixed ‘nodeLLMRequest*‘; ‘Message.User‘-

,→ input variants use ‘nodeLLMSendMessage*‘; ‘nodeExecuteTools‘ returns ‘ReceivedToolResults‘. - The graph DSL entry point is ‘strategy { ... }‘ (‘AIAgentGraphStrategyBuilder‘), and ‘edge(...)‘ is 

,→ defined on ‘AIAgentSubgraphBuilderBase‘. Nodes are wired with the infix ‘forwardTo‘ on ‘AIAgentNodeBase 

,→ ‘ (in ‘.../entity/AIAgentNode.kt‘), returning an ‘AIAgentEdgeBuilderIntermediate‘ on which ‘onCondition 

,→ ‘, ‘transformed‘, and predicates like ‘onToolCalls‘/‘onTextMessage‘ (in ‘dsl/extension/AIAgentEdges.kt 

,→ ‘) can be chained. - ‘AIAgentEdgeBuilderIntermediate‘ is ‘expect‘/‘actual‘ (jvmCommon and nonJvmCommon). - Before assuming a node factory, DSL entry, or parameter exists, check ‘agents/agents-core/api/jvm/agents-

,→ core.api‘ and the ‘.klib.api‘ variants. - Check ‘@Target‘ before applying DSL marker annotations to a new declaration site --- several markers in 

,→ this codebase are function-only and will fail to apply to classes. ## ‘@InternalAgentsApi‘ Many ‘agents-core‘ types are annotated ‘@InternalAgentsApi‘. Consumers --- including tests in this repo ---

,→ must opt in with ‘@OptIn(InternalAgentsApi::class)‘ or a file-level ‘@file:OptIn(...)‘. When adding, 

,→ moving, or annotating internal APIs, check every call site (production and test) and either add opt-ins 

,→ or reconsider the annotation. ## Pipelines and features (‘agents-core‘) Feature pipelines follow a consistent shape worth mirroring when adding a new one: - An ‘AIAgent*PipelineAPI‘ interface declares ‘on*‘ trigger methods (invoked at runtime call sites) and ‘ 

,→ intercept*‘ registration methods (called by features). - An ‘AIAgent*PipelineImpl‘ (public, in ‘commonMain‘) implements the API and uses ‘AIAgentPipelineImpl‘ 

,→ helpers such as ‘invokeRegisteredHandlersForEvent‘, ‘addHandlerForFeature‘, ‘createConditionalHandler‘. - The public ‘AIAgent*Pipeline‘ class is ‘expect‘/‘actual‘, extends ‘AIAgentPipeline‘, and delegates the 

,→ API to the ‘*Impl‘ via ‘by‘. JVM ‘actual‘s typically add ‘@JavaAPI‘ blocking overloads. - A new lifecycle event needs (1) an entry in ‘AgentLifecycleEventType‘, (2) an event-context class 

,→ implementing the relevant ‘*EventContext‘ interface, (3) trigger and interceptor methods on the 

,→ pipeline API, and (4) a call to the trigger from the runtime call site that emits it. Handlers 

,→ registered via a feature only fire if step 4 exists. ## Serialization (‘serialization/serialization-core‘) - ‘JSONSerializer‘ is a library-agnostic JSON abstraction over ‘TypeToken‘; use ‘typeToken<T>()‘ to build 

,→ tokens. Methods: ‘encodeToString‘/‘decodeFromString‘, ‘encodeToJSONElement‘/‘decodeFromJSONElement‘, ‘ 

,→ encodeJSONElementToString‘/‘decodeJSONElementFromString‘. - ‘JSONElement‘ (with ‘JSONObject‘, ‘JSONArray‘, ‘JSONPrimitive‘, ‘JSONLiteral‘, ‘JSONNull‘) is the 

,→ neutral in-memory JSON model. ‘KotlinxJSONElementMappers.kt‘ bridges to/from kotlinx ‘JsonElement‘ via 

,→ ‘toKoogJSONElement()‘ / ‘toKotlinxJsonElement()‘. - ‘KotlinxSerializer(json: Json = Json.Default)‘ is the kotlinx-serialization backing; ‘JacksonSerializer‘ 

,→ (in ‘serialization-jackson‘, JVM-only) is the Jackson backing. - MCP integration (‘agents-mcp‘, ‘agents-mcp-server‘) uses the same kotlinx ‘JsonElement‘ bridging helpers. 

,→

- When a backend uses generic types (e.g. Jackson ‘JavaType‘, or kotlinx serializers module lookup), 

,→ implementations must pass the full resolved type from the ‘TypeToken‘ --- otherwise parameterized types 

,→ decode inner values as raw ‘Map‘/‘LinkedHashMap‘ instead of typed instances. Cover new ‘TypeToken‘ 

,→ variants in both ‘KotlinxSerializerTest‘ and ‘JacksonSerializerTest‘. - When a ‘@Serializable‘ field must reflect the exact value the LLM (or another source) supplied, do not 

,→ give it a default --- a default silently substitutes when the field is absent or null on decode. Prefer 

,→ a nullable type with explicit downstream handling. ## Tests - Unit tests live per-module under ‘commonTest‘, ‘jvmTest‘, or ‘jvmCommonTest‘. Framework: JUnit Jupiter 

,→ on JVM (often with ‘@Execution(ExecutionMode.SAME_THREAD)‘); multiplatform tests use ‘kotlin.test‘ and 

,→ ‘kotlinx-coroutines-test‘ (‘runTest‘). - Integration tests live in ‘integration-tests/‘ and require provider API keys via environment variables ( 

,→ see ‘CLAUDE.md‘, e.g. ‘ANTHROPIC_API_TEST_KEY‘, ‘OPEN_AI_API_TEST_KEY‘, ‘GEMINI_API_TEST_KEY‘, ‘ 

,→ MISTRAL_AI_API_TEST_KEY‘, ‘OPEN_ROUTER_API_TEST_KEY‘, ‘OLLAMA_IMAGE_URL‘). - ‘agents-test‘ provides ‘getMockExecutor { ... }‘, ‘mockTool(...) alwaysReturns ...‘, ‘withTesting { 

,→ testGraph { ... } }‘, and related DSL for mocking LLM responses, tools, and graph structure. - HTTP client implementation modules share ‘http-client-test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest‘ (with ‘MockWebServer‘ 

,→ / ‘PostEndpointConfig‘) via per-module ‘*TestBase‘ classes. Useful gradle invocations (from ‘CLAUDE.md‘): ‘‘‘bash ./gradlew build # full build + tests ./gradlew assemble # build, no tests ./gradlew jvmTest # all JVM tests ./gradlew :agents:agents-core:jvmTest # one module ./gradlew jvmTest --tests "fully.qualified.TestClass" # one class ./gradlew jvmTestClasses jsTestClasses # compile tests only ‘‘‘ 

32 Follow the Quality Gates section of ‘TESTING.md‘ before considering a change done. When something remains 

,→ unverified after a change (e.g. a compile/test task you could not run), report the residual risk 

,→ explicitly instead of stopping silently. 

33 F GEPA generated SKILL for kotest 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific notes for working effectively in Kotest, a Kotlin Multiplatform testing 

,→ framework. ---## Repository shape Kotest is a KMP testing framework organized as a multi-module Gradle build. Top-level groups: - ‘kotest-common/‘ -- shared annotations (‘@ExperimentalKotest‘, ‘@KotestInternal‘) and small cross-

,→ platform utilities (e.g. ‘nonDeterministicTestTimeSource()‘, ‘withNonVirtualTimeout(...)‘). - ‘kotest-framework/‘ -- the engine and its Gradle/KSP plugins; ‘kotest-framework-engine‘ is the core. - ‘kotest-assertions/‘ -- matcher libraries; standard matchers live in ‘kotest-assertions-core‘, with 

,→ shared error-collection / soft-assertion infrastructure in ‘kotest-assertions-shared‘. - ‘kotest-property/‘ -- property testing (‘Gen‘, ‘Arb‘, ‘Exhaustive‘, shrinkers, edge cases). - ‘kotest-runner/‘ -- JUnit Platform / JUnit4 / JUnit6 runners. - ‘kotest-extensions/‘ -- third-party integrations (Spring, Testcontainers, Allure, ...). - ‘kotest-tests/‘ -- many small Gradle modules holding integration/regression tests, each with its own JVM/ 

,→ config so they don’t interfere. Prefer a new module here over shoehorning special JVM config into an 

,→ existing one. - ‘buildSrc/‘ -- convention plugins (‘kotest-jvm-conventions‘, ‘kotest-js-conventions‘, ‘kotest-native-

,→ conventions‘, ‘kotest-android-conventions‘, ‘kotest-publishing-conventions‘, ...) and ‘Ci.kt‘. Base package is ‘io.kotest‘. Legacy test code also lives under ‘com.sksamuel.kotest‘. Coding style is 

,→ enforced by ‘.editorconfig‘: **3-space indent**, 120-column lines, LF endings. ## Source-set layout (KMP) Modules use standard KMP source sets: ‘commonMain‘, ‘jvmMain‘, ‘jsMain‘, ‘nativeMain‘, plus ‘commonTest‘, ‘ 

,→ jvmTest‘, etc. Some modules add intermediate source sets (e.g. ‘jvmCommonMain‘ shared between JVM and 

,→ Android in the JUnit4 runner, ‘nonjvmMain‘ for shared non-JVM code in assertions). Platform-specific 

,→ behavior uses the ‘expect‘/‘actual‘ pattern rather than runtime platform checks. Before editing a 

,→ symbol in ‘commonMain‘, check whether it is ‘expect‘/‘actual‘ -- otherwise you’ll get "actual without 

,→ expect" or missing-actual errors on other targets. ## Build, test, and API compatibility ‘‘‘bash ./gradlew check # all enabled targets ./gradlew check -PjvmOnly=true # JVM-only, much faster (also used by CI PR builds) ./gradlew :kotest-assertions:kotest-assertions-core:check ./gradlew apiCheck # required before PR ./gradlew apiDump # regenerate after any public API change ‘‘‘ - ‘-PjvmOnly=true‘ is read by ‘buildSrc/src/main/kotlin/Ci.kt‘ (‘Ci.JVM_ONLY‘) and used by the PR/main 

,→ workflows; use it for fast local iteration. - ‘gradle.properties‘ flags ‘kotest_enableKotlinJs‘ / ‘kotest_enableKotlinNative‘ control non-JVM targets. 

,→ The build assumes an 8 GB Gradle heap (‘org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx8g‘); worker JVMs use 4 GB. - Public API is enforced by the Kotlin Binary Compatibility Validator. ‘.api‘ files live in each module’s ‘ 

,→ api/‘ directory (with per-target subdirectories where relevant). **Any public API change requires ‘./ 

,→ gradlew apiDump‘ and committing the updated files.** Before changing anything public, read the current 

,→ ‘.api‘ file to understand the existing signature; after the change, diff the regenerated dump. - Mark internal APIs with ‘@KotestInternal‘ (from ‘kotest-common‘) to exclude them from the API dump. Use ‘ 

,→ @ExperimentalKotest‘ for opt-in preview APIs. - ‘settings.gradle.kts‘ conditionally includes modules based on OS/CI/branch; some extensions only build 

,→ on Linux. ## Where to put things - **New matcher** -> appropriate ‘kotest-assertions-*‘ module (usually ‘kotest-assertions-core‘). 

,→ Implement ‘Matcher<T>‘ with ‘test(value): MatcherResult‘, provide both ‘should...‘ and ‘shouldNot...‘ 

,→ infix extensions returning ‘this‘, prefer ‘DiffableMatcherResult‘ when actual/expected are meaningful, 

,→ and add tests in ‘jvmTest‘ and/or ‘commonTest‘. Then run ‘apiDump‘. Assertion functions follow ‘infix 

,→ fun ... : T { this shouldBe/shouldNot matcher(...); return this }‘. - **New ‘Arb‘ generator** -> ‘kotest-property/src/commonMain/kotlin/io/kotest/property/arbitrary/‘ (or ‘ 

,→ jvmMain‘ for JVM-only types). Provide ‘edgecase()‘ and ‘sample()‘; add a ‘Shrinker<A>‘ if meaningful. 

,→ Document edge cases in KDoc (numeric edges, then non-finite edges, and the range/flag conditions under 

,→ which each applies) and only emit an edge case when it lies inside the requested range. - **New extension** -> implement the relevant interface from ‘io.kotest.core.extensions‘ (‘ 

,→ TestCaseExtension‘, ‘SpecExtension‘, ‘ProjectExtension‘, ‘MountableExtension‘, ‘TagExtension‘, ‘ 

,→ EnabledExtension‘, ...). Register globally via ‘AbstractProjectConfig.extensions‘ or per-spec. 

,→ Substantial third-party integrations get their own module under ‘kotest-extensions/‘. - **Integration test needing special JVM config** -> new module under ‘kotest-tests/‘ rather than adding 

,→ it to an existing one. Several such modules use ‘systemProperty("kotest.framework.config.fqn", ...)‘ in 

,→ their ‘build.gradle.kts‘ to point at a bespoke ‘AbstractProjectConfig‘. 

34 ## Architectural concepts - **Spec styles** (‘FunSpec‘, ‘StringSpec‘, ‘BehaviorSpec‘, ‘DescribeSpec‘, ‘ShouldSpec‘, ‘WordSpec‘, ‘ 

,→ FreeSpec‘, ‘FeatureSpec‘, ‘ExpectSpec‘) are abstract classes extending ‘DslDrivenSpec -> Spec‘; they 

,→ differ only in DSL syntax via scope interfaces (e.g. ‘FunSpecRootScope‘, ‘FreeSpecRootScope‘/‘ 

,→ FreeSpecContainerScope‘). Runners re-export these as ‘@RunWith‘-annotated base classes. - **Extension vs Listener**: extensions can intercept and change execution; listeners only observe events. 

,→ ‘TestCaseExtension‘ in particular controls whether/when a test executes and what ‘TestResult‘ is 

,→ returned (including ‘TestResult.Ignored‘). When adding runner behavior, look for an existing extension 

,→ point (‘TestCaseExtension‘, ‘filters()‘, etc.) before adding a new one -- runners are thin wrappers 

,→ over the engine and prefer composition. - **Matcher composition**: matcher factory functions return anonymous ‘Matcher<T>‘ objects; compose with ‘ 

,→ and‘/‘or‘ infix and ‘contramap‘. - **Property model**: ‘Gen<A>‘ is sealed with ‘Arb<A>‘ (random + edge cases + shrinking) and ‘Exhaustive<A 

,→ >‘ (enumeration). Arbs are built via ‘arbitrary { ... }‘, which exposes ‘it.random: RandomSource‘. 

,→ Deterministic tests use ‘RandomSource.seeded(<long>)‘. Edge-case lists are typically declared as 

,→ private top-level ‘val‘s inside the generator file and filtered against the caller’s range before 

,→ emission. - **Tag expressions** (‘io.kotest.engine.tags‘): parsed by a ‘Lexer‘ + recursive-descent ‘Parser‘ into a 

,→ sealed ‘Expression‘ AST (‘Or‘, ‘And‘, ‘Not‘, ‘Identifier‘). Evaluation returns a three-valued ‘ 

,→ TagExpressionResult‘ (‘Include‘ / ‘Exclude‘ / ‘Inconclusive‘). Lattice: OR treats ‘Include‘ as 

,→ absorbing and ‘Exclude‘ as identity; AND treats ‘Exclude‘ as absorbing and ‘Include‘ as identity. - **Project configuration** is a class extending ‘AbstractProjectConfig‘ located at ‘io.kotest.provided. 

,→ ProjectConfig‘. On JVM the FQN can be overridden via the ‘kotest.framework.config.fqn‘ system property 

,→ (constant ‘KotestEngineProperties.PROJECT_CONFIGURATION_FQN‘). ## Assertions and error collection Assertion infrastructure lives in ‘kotest-assertions-shared‘ under ‘io.kotest.assertions‘: - ‘errorCollector‘ is an ‘expect val‘ (JVM implementation is thread-local / coroutine-local); it holds ‘ 

,→ ErrorCollectionMode.{Soft, Hard, InspectorHard}‘ plus a list of failures and a clue stack. - ‘assertSoftly { ... }‘ switches the collector to ‘Soft‘, aggregates failures via ‘collectErrors()‘, and 

,→ throws a ‘MultiAssertionError‘ (only in the outermost block). - ‘AssertionErrorBuilder‘ builds platform-appropriate errors (opentest4j ‘AssertionFailedError‘ on JVM, ‘ 

,→ KotestAssertionFailedError‘ elsewhere) and strips ‘io.kotest.*‘ stack frames. ‘fail(message)‘ throws 

,→ unconditionally; soft-aware code paths must push through the collector rather than throw. When adding a new assertion helper that can be used inside ‘assertSoftly‘, check ‘errorCollector. 

,→ getCollectionMode()‘ and route via the collector when ‘Soft‘; otherwise throw. Cross-thread coroutine 

,→ use on JVM should propagate the collector via ‘errorCollectorContextElement‘. ## Testing patterns used in this repo - Most JVM tests use ‘io.kotest.core.spec.style.FunSpec‘ and are annotated with ‘@EnabledIf( 

,→ LinuxOnlyGithubCondition::class)‘ (from ‘io.kotest.core.annotation‘) so CI runs them only on Linux 

,→ runners. Follow this convention for anything that is Linux-only in practice (Testcontainers, some 

,→ engine tests). - Tests that assert on time or use ‘retry‘/‘eventually‘/‘continually‘ enable virtual time via ‘.config( 

,→ coroutineTestScope = true)‘ on the test or ‘override val coroutineTestScope = true‘ on the spec, so ‘ 

,→ delay‘ can be advanced deterministically. Prefer this over real wall-clock waits. - Time-sensitive engine code uses ‘nonDeterministicTestTimeSource()‘ and ‘withNonVirtualTimeout(...)‘ from 

,→ ‘kotest-common‘ (both ‘@KotestInternal‘) so ‘retry‘/‘eventually‘/‘continually‘ honor virtual time when 

,→ the test opts in. - Tests that assert on failure-message content use string matchers like ‘shouldContain‘ / ‘ 

,→ shouldContainInOrder‘ on the exception message. When changing a matcher’s failure message, search for 

,→ tests asserting on that text before merging. ## Cross-cutting principles These recur often enough to be worth internalizing: 1. **Public API is contract.** Any signature visible outside a module must be reflected in the module’s ‘ 

,→ api/**/*.api‘ file. Read the file first, change code, then ‘./gradlew apiDump‘, then commit the diff. 

,→ Use ‘@KotestInternal‘ to keep helpers out of the dump. 2. **Multiplatform first.** When a feature has JVM specifics, look for an existing ‘expect‘/‘actual‘ split 

,→ before adding a platform check. Add ‘actual‘s for every target the ‘expect‘ declares. 3. **Per-style parity in the engine and datatest.** Anything defined for one spec style (‘FunSpec‘, ‘ 

,→ FreeSpec‘, ‘DescribeSpec‘, ...) usually has parallel files/tests for every other style -- e.g. ‘io/ 

,→ kotest/datatest/<style>Root.kt‘ + ‘<style>ContainerScope.kt‘, and ‘jvmTest/io/kotest/datatest/tags/ 

,→ DataTestTags<Style>.kt‘. When fixing a bug in one style, check the sibling files and mirror the fix. 4. **Layered discovery/filtering in the JUnit Platform runner.** The engine (‘ 

,→ KotestJunitPlatformTestEngine‘) gates on selector types, ‘Discovery.discover()‘ supports only a 

,→ documented subset of selectors (classpath root, class, unique id), and post-discovery filtering happens 

,→ via ‘DescriptorFilter‘s. When adding filtering behavior, plug into the existing ‘DescriptorFilter‘ 

,→ mechanism rather than growing the discovery step. 5. **Lazy expensive messages.** Failure-message helpers that compute similarity/partial-match diagnostics 

,→ (e.g. ‘possibleMatchesDescription‘, ‘describePartialMatchesInCollection‘) can be expensive and are 

,→ expected to be evaluated lazily inside ‘MatcherResult‘. Follow the existing pattern (‘by lazy‘ / lambda 

,→ ) when adding new diagnostics. 

35 ## Documentation User-facing docs live under ‘documentation/‘ as Docusaurus content. Versioned copies are in ‘documentation/ 

,→ versioned_docs/version-<x>/...‘. When changing user-visible behavior, update the current docs and, if 

,→ the change is being backported, the relevant versioned copy. PRs that touch only ‘documentation/‘ skip 

,→ the test matrix. 

36 G GEPA generated SKILL for ktor 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific notes for working effectively in the Ktor codebase. ---# Ktor Repository Guide Ktor is a Kotlin Multiplatform framework organized as many Gradle modules under top-level ‘ktor-*‘ 

,→ directories (‘ktor-http‘, ‘ktor-io‘, ‘ktor-utils‘, ‘ktor-client‘, ‘ktor-server‘, ‘ktor-shared‘, ‘ktor-

,→ network‘, etc.). ‘AGENTS.md‘ (referenced from ‘CLAUDE.md‘) is the authoritative playbook; consult it 

,→ before starting non-trivial work. ## Gradle module structure The project uses a **flattened** Gradle layout (see ‘settings.gradle.kts‘, which uses a custom DSL rather 

,→ than nested ‘include(":a:b")‘ calls). Nested directory paths do NOT map to nested Gradle project names: - ‘ktor-client/ktor-client-curl‘ -> ‘:ktor-client-curl‘ - ‘ktor-server/ktor-server-plugins/ktor-server-di‘ -> ‘:ktor-server-di‘ - ‘ktor-http/ktor-http-cio‘ -> ‘:ktor-http-cio‘ Always address tasks by the leaf module name (‘:ktor-http:jvmTest‘, not ‘:ktor-http:ktor-http-cio:...‘). 

,→ To find the Gradle name for a directory, look for its ‘build.gradle.kts‘ -- the module name is the 

,→ directory basename with the ‘ktor-‘ prefix. ## Source set layout (platform-centric, flattened) Kotlin Multiplatform modules use a flattened, platform-centric layout -- NOT the default ‘src/<platform> 

,→ Main/kotlin‘ structure: ‘‘‘ <module>/ common/src, common/test jvm/src, jvm/test, jvm/resources, jvm/test-resources nonJvm/src, posix/src, web/src, mingwX64/src, ... api/ # ABI dumps (*.api, *.klib.api) build.gradle.kts ‘‘‘ Build logic rejects manually registered extra source sets. To add a target, create the directory or set ‘ 

,→ target.<name>=true‘ in ‘gradle.properties‘. When placing tests: put them in the source set that matches where the code under test lives (‘common/test‘ 

,→ for multiplatform code, ‘jvm/test‘ for JVM-only, etc.). ## Standard workflow before returning control Per ‘AGENTS.md‘, do not return control to the user without running, in order: 1. ‘./gradlew :module-name:jvmTest‘ (and ‘:allTests‘ if ‘common/‘ or non-JVM code was touched) 2. ‘./gradlew :module-name:assemble‘ 3. ‘./gradlew :module-name:formatKotlin‘ then ‘./gradlew :module-name:lintKotlin‘ 4. ‘./gradlew :module-name:updateKotlinAbi‘ if ‘public‘/‘protected‘ API changed Always prefer **module-scoped** tasks (‘:module:task‘) over project-wide ones. Full-module test runs can 

,→ take several minutes; prefer ‘--tests "fully.qualified.Class.method"‘ while iterating. If the Kotlin daemon fails ("Failed to compile with Kotlin daemon"), run ‘./gradlew --stop‘ and retry. ## Binary compatibility (ABI) Public API is enforced via Kotlin Gradle Plugin ABI validation. Every module with public API has an ‘api/‘ 

,→ directory containing ‘*.api‘ (JVM) and ‘*.klib.api‘ (Kotlin/Native + JS) dumps. - Any change to ‘public‘ or ‘protected‘ declarations requires re-running ‘./gradlew :module: 

,→ updateKotlinAbi‘ and committing the updated dump files. - Validate with ‘./gradlew :module:checkKotlinAbi‘. - When implementing an interface (including test doubles), all its declarations across ‘common‘/‘jvm‘/‘ 

,→ klib‘ API surfaces must be kept in sync -- a mismatch surfaces as ‘[NOTHING_TO_OVERRIDE]‘ at compile 

,→ time. ## Release branches and API policy - ‘main‘ -- next minor release; new public APIs allowed. - ‘release/<major>.x‘ (e.g. ‘release/3.x‘, ‘release/4.x‘) -- patch releases; **no** new public API. - Breaking changes only in major releases. - ‘./switch-base-branch.sh‘ (supports ‘--dry-run‘) helps rebase a feature branch onto the correct base. 

37 Bug fixes without API changes should generally target ‘release/<major>.x‘; fixes requiring new API target ‘ 

,→ main‘. ## Code style essentials - ‘.editorconfig‘ is authoritative: Kotlin official style, 4-space indent (2 for JSON/YAML), 120-column 

,→ max, LF endings. - Star imports are preferred for ‘io.ktor.*‘. - Prefer ‘internal‘ by default; annotate non-user-facing but unavoidably public APIs with ‘@InternalAPI‘; 

,→ keep ‘@OptIn‘ scopes minimal. - Annotate DSL receiver types (e.g. plugin configs) with ‘@KtorDsl‘. - Validation idioms: ‘require(...)‘ for arguments, ‘check(...)‘ for state, ‘error(...)‘ for unreachable 

,→ code. - New source files need the repository copyright header. - Test names use descriptive backticked strings. ## Multiplatform expect/actual pattern Common code declares ‘expect‘ types/functions; each platform source set provides the ‘actual‘. When 

,→ modifying such an API, update: 1. The ‘expect‘ declaration in ‘common/src‘. 2. Every ‘actual‘ declaration across platform source sets that exists for the module. 3. Both ‘api/*.api‘ and ‘api/*.klib.api‘ dumps via ‘updateKotlinAbi‘. Start JVM-first unless the task specifically requires another platform. ## Cross-module visibility ‘internal‘ in Kotlin is module-scoped. A symbol declared ‘internal‘ in one Gradle module (e.g. ‘ktor-

,→ client-core‘) is not visible from another module (e.g. ‘ktor-client-logging‘), even within the same 

,→ repository. Symptoms: ‘[INVISIBLE_REFERENCE]‘ or "Cannot access ..." errors. Any needed cross-module 

,→ access must go through the target module’s public API -- do not attempt to reach into private/internal 

,→ fields of a delegate type. ## Finding things quickly - Public API surface of a module: read ‘<module>/api/<module>.api‘ and ‘<module>/api/<module>.klib.api‘. 

,→ These are precise and small. - Test conventions for a module: read a neighboring test in the same ‘*/test‘ directory before adding a 

,→ new one -- modules have established base classes and helpers (e.g. ‘testApplication‘, engine-specific 

,→ test suites in ‘ktor-server/ktor-server-test-suites‘). - ‘expect‘/‘actual‘ pairs: search for ‘expect class‘/‘expect fun‘ in ‘common/src‘, then look for matching 

,→ files under each platform source set. ## Bug-fix workflow ‘.claude/skills/fix-bug/SKILL.md‘ documents the full lifecycle for fixing issues: - Accepts GitHub ‘#NUMBER‘ (fetched with ‘gh issue view NUMBER --repo ktorio/ktor‘) or YouTrack ‘KTOR-

,→ NUMBER‘ / URL (fetched via the YouTrack MCP tool ‘mcp__youtrack__get_issue‘). - YouTrack MCP setup: ‘‘‘bash claude mcp add --header "Authorization: Bearer <token>" --transport http youtrack https://youtrack. 

,→ jetbrains.com/mcp ‘‘‘ - The workflow is: fetch issue -> understand module and existing tests -> branch ‘claude/<issue-id>-<short-

,→ desc>‘ off the correct base -> write a **failing** reproducer test and commit it -> implement the 

,→ minimal fix -> validate (tests, assemble, format, lint, ABI) -> open PR. - Commit messages include ‘KTOR-<NUM>‘ or ‘#<NUM>‘ in imperative mood. ## Adding or removing modules - Module directory and Gradle name must start with ‘ktor-‘. - After adding/removing modules or enabling new targets, run ‘./update-artifact-dumps.sh‘ to refresh ‘ 

,→ gradle/artifacts‘ -- publishing fails on stale dumps. 

38 H SkillOpt generated SKILL for koog 

---name: repo-skill description: Repository-specific notes learned while working in this codebase. ---## Workflow rules 1. **Always run the named failing tests before concluding.** After making edits, invoke the specific 

,→ failing test(s) (e.g. ‘./gradlew :module:jvmTest --tests FullyQualifiedTestName‘). Do NOT write a 

,→ summary claiming success until the test actually passes. If the runner is unavailable, say the fix is 

,→ unverified –- never assume. 2. **Map the full blast radius before editing.** Before changing code: - ‘grep‘ the symbol/identifier across the whole repo (source, tests, ‘**/api/**/*.api‘ descriptors, ‘ 

,→ CHANGELOG.md‘). - Read the failing test file end-to-end to learn the exact expected shape (property names, values, 

,→ ordering, JSON keys). - Check ‘api/**/*.api‘ / ‘*.klib.api‘ files –- they often reveal the intended public surface (missing 

,→ declarations, renames). 3. **Prefer minimal, test-driven edits.** Make the change the failing test expects, not a broader refactor. 

,→

- **Read the failing test file end-to-end first** to enumerate every symbol/field/argument name it 

,→ references. Missing DTO fields (‘thinking‘, ‘think‘, ‘reasoningContent‘, ‘fallbackModelFamily‘, ‘ 

,→ SECTION_SEPARATOR‘, ‘id‘ on ‘ReasoningComplete‘) frequently cause the test file itself to fail to 

,→ compile, masking the actual bug and blocking *all* tests in that file. - **Cross-check ‘api/**/*.api‘ and ‘*.klib.api‘ against source**: when the ABI dump lists a field/ 

,→ parameter that the source doesn’t yet declare, the ABI dump reveals the exact intended shape –-

,→ including parameter order for ‘@JvmOverloads‘/constructor compatibility. 4. **After the primary edit, re-grep for compile fallout.** Renames/moves frequently break Java callers, ‘ 

,→ @SerialName‘ consumers, and package imports in other modules. Fix those before running tests. ## Common pitfalls in this repo - **Package moves:** When a file is physically moved between modules, update the ‘package‘ declaration AND 

,→ every ‘import‘ in consumers. Also check ‘api/**/*.api‘ descriptors for the old package. - **Kotlin property renames with serialization:** If a Kotlin property is renamed (e.g. ‘path‘ → ‘

,→ absolutePath‘) but the JSON wire format must stay stable, add ‘@SerialName("oldName")‘. Also update 

,→ every internal reference and any test data files. - **Annotation parameter names:** Kotlin annotations exposed to Java reflection use the Kotlin parameter 

,→ name as the Java method name. ‘@LLMDescription(val description: String)‘ is accessed as ‘.description() 

,→ ‘ from Java, not ‘.value()‘. Renaming the parameter breaks Java call sites –- search ‘**/*.java‘ for 

,→ the annotation. - **Adding a new enum/object member:** New ‘BedrockModels.XyzModel‘ etc. must be added to BOTH the 

,→ property declaration AND any ‘supportedModels‘/registration list, and the referenced base model (e.g. ‘ 

,→ AnthropicModels.Xyz‘) must already exist. - **Stream/event field additions:** When adding a field like ‘strategyName‘ to an event, update: the event 

,→ data class, all constructor call sites, the formatter (‘traceMessageFormat.kt‘), and the context that 

,→ populates it. ## Multi-module Kotlin build hygiene When adding or modifying a source file that imports symbols from another module in this repo (e.g. ‘ai. 

,→ koog.http.client.*‘ from ‘http-client-core‘, or anything from ‘test-utils‘), always check the owning 

,→ module’s ‘build.gradle.kts‘ and add the required ‘api‘/‘implementation(project(":path:to:module"))‘ 

,→ dependency in the correct source set (‘commonMain‘, ‘jvmMain‘, ‘commonTest‘, etc.). A compile error 

,→ like ‘Unresolved reference ’http’‘ or ‘Unresolved reference ’KoogHttpClient’‘ in a module that never 

,→ previously depended on that symbol almost always means the module dependency is missing, not that the 

,→ target file is wrong. ## KtorKoogHttpClient base URL resolution Ktor’s ‘defaultRequest { url(baseUrl) }‘ applies RFC 3986 resolution: a base URL without a trailing ‘/‘ 

,→ treats its last path segment as a "file", so a relative request path replaces that segment instead of 

,→ extending it (e.g. base ‘https://host/v1beta‘ + path ‘models/foo‘ → ‘https://host/models/foo‘, 

,→ dropping ‘v1beta‘). The ‘KtorKoogHttpClient.Factory.create‘ implementation must normalise ‘baseUrl‘ to 

,→ end with ‘/‘ before passing it to ‘url(...)‘ (mirroring the manual ‘trimEnd(’/’) + "/" + trimStart(’/’) 

,→ ‘ join used by ‘JavaKoogHttpClient.resolvePath‘ and ‘OkHttpKoogHttpClient‘). Leave empty baseUrl as-is. ## Investigation & workflow patterns - **Sibling method in same file is the oracle**: For bugs about "information being dropped" (system prompt 

,→ lost, generics erased, fields missing), find a sibling method on the same class that handles the 

,→ analogous case correctly (e.g. ‘decodeFromString‘ vs broken ‘decodeFromJSONElement‘; ‘ 

,→ interceptStrategyCompleted‘ vs broken ‘interceptStrategyStarting‘) –- the fix is almost always to 

,→ mirror the working sibling’s shape. - **Suspect lambdas that ignore their parameter**: ‘foo.withX { ignored -> constant }‘ and calls like ‘. 

,→ rawClass‘, ‘.type.erasure‘, or ‘Class<*>‘ overloads that strip generics are classic "information loss" 

39 ,→ bugs. Grep the failing area for lambdas whose parameter name is ‘_‘ or unused, and for API overloads 

,→ that take ‘Class<*>‘ when a fully-parameterized ‘Type‘/‘JavaType‘ is available. - **Check CHANGELOG.md early**: When a bug report describes user-visible symptoms, ‘grep‘ CHANGELOG for 

,→ related issue numbers or feature names –- it often documents the intended fix (e.g. "skips X instead of 

,→ throwing", "added SerialKind.CONTEXTUAL branch"). - Look for orphaned KDoc blocks, stale imports, or non-exhaustive ‘when‘ branches –- strong signals of 

,→ what was removed/moved. - Grep sibling implementations (other model families, other LLM clients) for the canonical pattern before 

,→ writing new code. - Check ‘build/test-results/jvmTest/TEST-*.xml‘ for pass counts after targeted gradle test runs. ## Kotlin Multiplatform (expect/actual) gotchas - Top-level ‘actual fun‘ in a file with the same name as a ‘commonMain‘ file generates a duplicate ‘< 

,→ FileName>Kt‘ JVM class. Put ‘actual‘ top-level functions in a **dedicated file** (e.g. ‘FooCopyExt.kt‘) 

,→ to avoid ‘Duplicate JVM class name‘ errors. - ‘expect‘ extension functions with default parameters may fail to resolve from ‘commonMain‘ callers in 

,→ some Kotlin versions –- prefer a concrete ‘commonMain‘ function that delegates to a small ‘expect‘/‘ 

,→ actual‘ hook for the platform-specific bit. - When copying a KMP class that has platform-only mutable state (e.g. JVM-only dispatchers with ‘internal 

,→ set‘), the ‘commonMain‘ copy path loses that state. Fix via an ‘expect‘/‘actual‘ helper that re-

,→ propagates platform fields after construction. - Cross-package extension functions in ‘commonMain‘ require an explicit ‘import‘ at each call site; if 

,→ callers were broken pre-existing, add the import as part of the fix. ## Repo conventions ### LLM model registries (‘LLModelDefinitions‘) - ‘allModelsIn()‘ uses reflection over public ‘LLModel‘ properties. Any new public ‘@JvmField val ...: 

,→ LLModel‘ is auto-discovered, and tests assert ‘models.size == reflectionModels.size‘, so ‘ 

,→ supportedModels‘ must include every declared field (including deprecated aliases). - When removing/renaming a model, keep the old name as ‘@Deprecated(..., ReplaceWith("..."))‘ with the 

,→ original API ‘id‘ string preserved so runtime calls still work. Use ‘@Suppress("DEPRECATION")‘ on the ‘ 

,→ supportedModels‘ list. ### Streaming clients (‘buildStreamFrameFlow‘) - **Both sides of nullable string concatenation must be guarded**: ‘(acc ?: "") + delta‘ still appends the 

,→ literal ‘"null"‘ when ‘delta‘ is null, because Kotlin’s ‘String + String?‘ stringifies null. Always 

,→ write ‘(acc ?: "") + (delta ?: "")‘ in tool-call arg accumulators (‘PendingToolCall. 

,→ appendArgumentsDelta‘) and similar reasoning/text delta joiners. - **Normalise blank streaming ids to null before equality**: ‘val sanitizedId = id?.takeIf { it.isNotBlank 

,→ () }‘ is the canonical guard before comparing streaming ids across chunks; providers send ‘""‘ for 

,→ continuation, so ‘id != null‘ is not the same as "new block". Use ‘sanitizedId != previous?.id‘ for the 

,→ new-vs-continuation predicate. - **Empty-string fallbacks poison pending state**: ‘emitTextDelta(x ?: "")‘ or ‘listOf(textDelta ?: "")‘ 

,→ inside ‘tryEmitPendingX‘ leaves a spurious ‘PendingText("")‘ / ‘listOf("")‘ that later flushes as an 

,→ empty ‘TextComplete‘ or wrong ‘content‘ list. Guard with ‘takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() }‘ before emitting, 

,→ and use ‘if (x != null) listOf(x) else emptyList()‘ when building accumulated content lists. - **Reasoning/tool-call block boundaries**: when a provider emits a new ‘id‘ (or ‘index‘) mid-stream, 

,→ flush the previous pending block *before* accumulating the new delta –- same pattern as ‘ 

,→ emitToolCallDelta‘’s id-change detection. Missing this collapses two logical blocks into one and 

,→ mismatches accumulated content. - Streaming providers distribute usage/token data across multiple events (e.g. Anthropic: input tokens in ‘ 

,→ message_start‘, output tokens in ‘message_delta‘). Accumulate statefully with local ‘var‘ inside ‘ 

,→ buildStreamFrameFlow { ... }‘; do **not** parse per-chunk statelessly. - Emit via ‘emitTextDelta‘, ‘emitToolCallDelta‘ (auto-accumulates arg JSON), ‘emitEnd(finishReason, 

,→ metaInfo)‘. Partial tool-call args are joined by ‘PendingToolCall.appendArgumentsDelta‘ –- guard both 

,→ sides with ‘?: ""‘ when concatenating nullable strings. ### kotlinx.serialization pitfalls - Snake_case API fields require ‘namingStrategy = JsonNamingStrategy.SnakeCase‘ on the ‘Json‘ config; ‘ 

,→ @SerialName‘ per field is insufficient for shared models. - Request DTO fields that should be **omitted when unset** must be ‘T? = null‘ with ‘@EncodeDefault( 

,→ EncodeDefault.Mode.NEVER)‘ –- a non-nullable field with a default (e.g. ‘Boolean = true‘) is always 

,→ emitted. - Provider-specific ‘LLMParams‘ subclasses (e.g. ‘OllamaParams‘) must be explicitly forwarded to the DTO 

,→ via ‘(prompt.params as? XxxParams)?.field‘ in both ‘execute()‘ and ‘executeStreaming()‘. ### Top-level extension vs. member function - When restoring a top-level extension that shares a name with an existing member on the receiver, the 

,→ body can safely delegate via the same call (‘= forwardTo(otherNode)‘) –- Kotlin resolves members before 

,→ extensions, so no recursion occurs. Useful for preserving ‘import pkg.name‘ while the real logic lives 

,→ on the class. ## Package-move fixes: fix ALL moved files, not just the named one When a task says "X moved packages", the diff almost always moved a **whole directory of sibling files**, 

,→ not just X. Before editing: 1. ‘ls‘/glob the containing directory and check the ‘package‘ declaration of EVERY file –- any file whose ‘ 

,→ package‘ doesn’t match its physical path is part of the move. 

40 2. Grep for the OLD package string across the repo: ‘grep -r "package ai.koog.old.pkg"‘ –- every hit needs 

,→ the same correction. 3. Grep for ‘import ai.koog.old.pkg‘ across the repo –- all consumers need updating, including sibling 

,→ test files, examples, and ‘api/**/*.api‘ descriptors. 4. After fixing packages, re-check tests that reference DTO fields –- a package move often coincides with 

,→ field renames/removals; unresolved references in *test* files are your signal that a data class also 

,→ needs restoration. Any compile error surfaced by the build –- even in sibling modules (‘prompt-structure‘, ‘koog-agents-

,→ additions‘, ‘test-utils‘, a ‘build.gradle.kts‘, etc.) –- is part of the same missing diff. Grep the 

,→ failing symbol/file and restore it too. ## Before editing: enumerate the full expected surface 1. **Treat ‘api/**/*.api‘ and ‘*.klib.api‘ as the authoritative checklist.** Diff declared members against 

,→ source for every touched class/object. Every ‘final val‘, ‘final fun‘, nested ‘object‘, constructor 

,→ overload (‘<init>()‘, ‘<init>(KLogger)‘), and companion member listed there must exist in source. If 

,→ the api file lists a 5-arg constructor but source has 4, the missing parameter is your fix. 2. **Grep every unresolved symbol referenced by the failing tests AND by peer source files.** A single 

,→ test may import 3+ symbols. Confirm each exists in source, not just in the api descriptor. 3. **For ‘expect class‘ restorations, list every abstract member the ‘actual‘ classes delegate to, plus 

,→ every context/data type used in their signatures.** Missing context classes (e.g. ‘AgentStartContext‘, 

,→ ‘NodeAfterExecuteContext‘) are often in a separate ‘handler/‘ package and may have been renamed (‘* 

,→ StartingContext‘ / ‘*CompletedContext‘). If only the new names exist, delete the stale ‘expect‘ members 

,→ rather than declaring undefined types. 4. **KMP ‘expect‘/‘actual‘ symmetry:** if you write ‘actual class X‘ in a platform source set, you MUST 

,→ add ‘public expect class X‘ in ‘commonMain‘. ‘no corresponding expected declaration‘ errors mean the ‘ 

,→ expect‘ side is missing. 5. **New public types with ‘Json‘/serialization in signatures** require ‘api(libs.kotlinx.serialization. 

,→ json)‘ (or equivalent) in the owning module’s ‘commonMain‘ –- an ‘implementation‘-scope dep will not 

,→ expose the type to consumers. ## After editing: verify before summarising 1. **Whole-module compile gate:** run ‘./gradlew :module:compileKotlinJvm‘ (or ‘:compileTestKotlinJvm‘) 

,→ before the test task. If any other file in the module fails to compile, your test can never run –- fix 

,→ it. 2. **Always run ‘./gradlew :module:jvmTest --tests <FQN>‘ after edits.** If it fails with compile errors 

,→ in another module, expand scope and fix those. 3. **Budget exploration.** Once you’ve located the target file(s), stop grepping. Repeated ‘grep‘/‘glob‘ 

,→ of the same symbol is a strong sign you’re stuck –- read the target file end-to-end and the api dump 

,→ instead. ## The failing test file is the authoritative checklist ### Bug-report tasks may actually be missing-implementation tasks If a task describes a runtime bug (wrong pagination, incorrect output) but ‘grep‘ for the class name only 

,→ finds test files and example usages –- not a source file –- the implementation was deleted. Treat the 

,→ failing test as the full specification: enumerate every ‘Args‘ field, ‘Result‘ field, method signature, 

,→ and assertion, then implement the class from scratch (usually in ‘jvmMain‘ if it uses JVM-only APIs 

,→ like ‘java.nio.file.Path‘). Mirror a sibling tool (e.g. ‘ReadFileTool‘, ‘ListDirectoryTool‘) for ‘Tool< 

,→ Args, Result>‘ boilerplate (‘typeToken‘, ‘@LLMDescription‘, ‘@Serializable‘ DTOs). ### Common minimal-fix shapes - **Orphaned KDoc / dangling reference is a strong signal**: A KDoc comment describing a function/constant/ 

,→ field followed immediately by an unrelated declaration, or a ‘Foo.BAR‘ reference where ‘Foo‘ exists but 

,→ ‘BAR‘ doesn’t, points at exactly one missing declaration. Grep the referenced symbol in ‘api/**/*.api‘ 

,→ and sibling source; the fix is usually a single ‘public const val‘, extension function, or sealed 

,→ subtype restoration mirroring peer usage. ### Silently-dropped / fragmentation bug shapes - **Iteration-direction bugs**: reports like "X silently drops Y" or "one logical thing becomes N 

,→ fragments" are almost always fixed by flipping which side of the pair you iterate. If the report is " 

,→ registered tools missing after restore", iterate the *registry* and check membership in the *saved 

,→ names* (not vice versa). Presence of a signal is not the same as a *change* in that signal –- providers 

,→ routinely repeat the same id/index on every chunk. - **Capability-aware defaulting**: when a ‘toXxxParams()‘ helper converts generic ‘LLMParams‘ to a 

,→ provider-specific subclass, capability-gated fields (‘thinkingConfig‘, reasoning knobs) become ‘null‘. 

,→ If the model advertises the capability (‘model.supports(LLMCapability.Thinking)‘) but the caller passed 

,→ generic params, apply a sensible default at the request-builder site rather than expecting every 

,→ caller to construct the provider params. Common minimal-diff shapes: - **Missing sealed subtype** for a new discriminator value (e.g. ‘@SerialName("keepalive") class 

,→ ResponseKeepalive(...) : Parent‘ –- the ‘else -> null‘ catch-all in the consumer already handles it 

,→ once it deserialises). 

41 - **Missing ‘typealias OldName = NewName‘** (or vice versa) as a rename migration path –- the ‘toString()‘ 

,→ still referencing the new name, or tests using the new name while source declares the old, are the 

,→ tell. - **Visibility bump** (‘private‘ → ‘internal‘) so same-module tests can call a helper directly. - **Missing optional DTO field** (‘val error: String? = null‘) plus a nullable check in the caller, when 

,→ the server can return an alternate payload shape on HTTP 200. Enumerate every symbol the failing test file references and grep each in ‘src/‘ –- the ones that resolve 

,→ only in tests/api dumps are your edit targets. Common variants: - A model registry contains key ‘X‘, but the failing test also references ‘Y‘ and ‘Z‘. Restoring only ‘X‘ 

,→ leaves the test uncompilable. - A test uses ‘YamlConfig(...)‘ from ‘io.ktor.server.config.yaml.*‘ –- if the module’s ‘build.gradle.kts‘ 

,→ is missing ‘ktor-server-config-yaml‘ in ‘jvmTest‘, the test never compiles regardless of the production 

,→ fix. - A test imports ‘kotlinx.coroutines.test.runTest‘ / uses ‘@OptIn(ExperimentalCoroutinesApi)‘ –- the 

,→ owning module must declare ‘kotlinx-coroutines-test‘ in the appropriate test source set. ## Fix ALL fallout, not just the named symbol - If you change a public constructor signature or interface member (e.g. ‘KoogHttpClient.Factory.create‘, ‘ 

,→ AnthropicLLMClient(..., httpClientFactory=)‘), grep every call site (‘HttpClientFactoryResolver‘, ‘ 

,→ jvmCommon.kt‘ factories, tests, docs) and reconcile them in the same edit pass. - **Corrupted-file signal:** if a source file begins with ‘<think>‘, a ‘‘‘kotlin fence, a diff header, or 

,→ any non-Kotlin preamble, that is a prior-edit corruption. Stripping the preamble is necessary but 

,→ rarely sufficient –- read the entire file end-to-end and check for a matching closing fence or 

,→ truncated tail that will produce "Expecting a top level declaration" errors. - **Reflection-driven tests** (e.g. ‘allModelsIn()‘, kotlinx.serialization ‘@Required‘) will not compile-

,→ fail when a field is missing/added; they fail at runtime. Do not assume the code is safe just because 

,→ it compiles –- run the test. ## Explicit API mode gotcha Many modules in this repo enable Kotlin’s explicit API mode. ‘override fun foo() = delegate.foo()‘ will 

,→ fail with *"Return type must be specified in explicit API mode"*. Always write ‘public override fun foo 

,→ (): ReturnType = delegate.foo()‘ when adding public overrides. ## New-module registration is a 3-file change Adding a new module to this repo requires updating THREE files, in order: 1. Create ‘<module>/build.gradle.kts‘ (mirror the closest peer module). 2. Add ‘include(":path:to:module")‘ to ‘settings.gradle.kts‘. 3. Add the new module path to either the ‘included‘ OR ‘excluded‘ set in ‘koog-agents/build.gradle.kts‘ ( 

,→ and often the analogous ‘koog-agents-additions/build.gradle.kts‘). The umbrella project has a validator 

,→ around line ~150 that fails the build with ‘There are modules that are not listed for ’koog-agents’ 

,→ main jar dependencies, please add them to ’included’ or ’excluded’‘ if this is skipped. Optional/JDBC/ 

,→ SQL/AWS provider modules are typically added to ‘excluded‘; core stable modules go into ‘included‘/‘ 

,→ stableModules‘. When a module directory exists (with ‘src/‘, ‘api/‘, ‘Module.md‘) but has **no ‘build.gradle.kts‘**, the 

,→ module’s build script was deleted. Symptoms: sibling modules fail with ‘Project with path ’:x:y:z’ 

,→ could not be found in project ’:a:b:c’‘. Fix: reconstruct ‘build.gradle.kts‘ by mirroring a peer module 

,→ (e.g. ‘agents-features-sql/build.gradle.kts‘ for ‘agents-features-chat-memory-sql‘), including the 

,→ same plugin block, ‘kotlin { ... }‘ source-set graph, and ‘api(...)‘ / ‘implementation(...)‘ deps 

,→ implied by the module’s ‘api/*.api‘ dump and its ‘commonMain‘ imports. Also verify ‘settings.gradle.kts 

,→ ‘ includes the module path. ## Compile-error triage table After your primary edit, ALWAYS run the named failing test. When it fails, classify the FIRST error before 

,→ writing any summary: | Error signature | Meaning | Required next action | |---|---|---| | ‘Unresolved reference ’X’‘ in the **failing test file itself** | A source symbol referenced by the test 

,→ was deleted (e.g. ‘YamlConfig‘) | Grep for ‘X‘ in ‘api/**/*.api‘, ‘*.klib.api‘, docs, sibling tests; 

,→ restore the source symbol OR the missing test dependency in ‘build.gradle.kts‘ | | ‘Unresolved reference ’X’‘ in a **sibling source file** you did NOT edit | A peer type/serializer/model-

,→ family was deleted; the whole module won’t compile so your test can never run | Restore the peer symbol 

,→ by mirroring the analogous existing family/client | | ‘Unresolved reference ’Nested’‘ where call site uses ‘Owner.Nested‘ | Owner compiles but the nested 

,→ member (e.g. ‘KoogHttpClient.Factory‘, ‘EventType.XxxStarting‘) was deleted | Grep the owner file for ‘ 

,→ class/interface/object Nested‘; restore it by mirroring a peer owner | | ‘No parameter with name ’X’ found‘ in a file you did NOT edit | A DTO / data class parameter was removed 

,→ | Add the missing parameter (check ‘api/**/*.api‘ for the intended signature) | | ‘Overload resolution ambiguity between candidates‘ | You added a new signature but left the stale one 

,→ behind | Delete the old overload in the same edit pass; grep the module for references to the old 

,→ parameter type | | ‘expect/actual ... incompatible‘ | One side of a KMP declaration was restored without the other | 

,→ Reconcile ‘expect‘ and ‘actual‘ shapes together | 

42 | ‘Project with path ’:a:b:c’ could not be found‘ | A module’s ‘build.gradle.kts‘ is missing or an ‘ 

,→ include(...)‘ in ‘settings.gradle.kts‘ was removed | Reconstruct the missing ‘build.gradle.kts‘ (mirror 

,→ a peer module) or restore the ‘settings.gradle.kts‘ include | | Test file imports ‘io.ktor.server.config.yaml.*‘, ‘io.kotest.*‘, ‘kotlinx.coroutines.test.*‘, 

,→ testcontainers, etc. and they are unresolved | Owning module’s ‘build.gradle.kts‘ is missing the 

,→ corresponding test dependency | Add the missing ‘testImplementation(...)‘ / ‘jvmTest‘ dependency | | ‘Cannot locate tasks that match ’:a:b:c:jvmTest 

43 I A SKILL optimized over per-PR bases 

The document below was produced by the configuration § 3.1 rejects: each task placed at its own parent commit, on JetBrains/tracy . The repository’s drift over the mined window surfaces as the document’s opening premise — two “repository variants” the agent is told to distinguish — and as detailed layouts and APIs that hold at no single commit. 

# Repository Knowledge: AI Dev Kit / Kotlin MLflow Demo ## Repository Variants Two distinct repository shapes appear in observations. Identify which you are working in before proceeding: 

,→

**Variant A –- Single-module demo project** (‘ai-dev-kit-demo‘) - Flat Gradle project with one ‘build.gradle.kts‘ at root - All sources under ‘src/main/kotlin‘ and ‘src/test/kotlin‘ - Package prefix: ‘org.example‘ (main sources), ‘ai‘ (test sources) - Key singleton: ‘KotlinMlflowClient‘ or ‘MlflowClients‘ **Variant B –- Multi-module library** (‘ai-dev-kit‘) - Modules: ‘ai-dev-kit-tracing‘, ‘ai-dev-kit-eval‘, ‘ai-dev-kit-plugin‘, ‘ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers‘, ‘ 

,→ examples‘ - ‘ai-dev-kit-tracing‘ is Kotlin Multiplatform (JVM + JS targets) - ‘ai-dev-kit-plugin/ai-dev-kit-trace-gradle‘ is a composite build (‘includeBuild‘) ---## Variant A: Single-Module Demo ### Source Layout ‘‘‘ src/main/kotlin/ Main.kt ai/AIClient.kt ai/OpenAIClient.kt ai/features/haiku/HaikuGenerator.kt ai/mlflow/BaseEvaluationTest.kt ai/mlflow/KotlinMlflowClient.kt (or MlflowClients.kt in some versions) ai/mlflow/Logging.kt ai/mlflow/dataclasses/ ai/mlflow/fluent/ ai/mlflow/fluent/attrubute/handlers/ (note: typo in directory name) ai/mlflow/fluent/processor/ ai/model/ModelData.kt src/test/kotlin/ ai/features/haiku/EvaluationLogger.kt ai/features/haiku/HaikuGeneratorTest.kt ai/mlflow/logging/TestLogging.kt ai/mlflow/tracing/TestAutologTracing.kt ai/mlflow/tracing/TestFluentTracing.kt ‘‘‘ **Package naming convention:** Despite the ‘ai/‘ directory structure, production source files use the ‘org. 

,→ example.*‘ package prefix (e.g. ‘org.example.ai.mlflow‘). Test sources use the ‘ai.*‘ prefix (e.g. ‘ai. 

,→ features.haiku‘). Some repository variants place fluent sub-packages under ‘ai.mlflow.fluent‘ without 

,→ the ‘org.example‘ prefix –- check the actual ‘package‘ declaration in each file. ### Key Classes **‘KotlinMlflowClient‘** –- internal singleton object extending ‘MlflowClient("http://localhost:5001")‘. 

,→ Holds mutable ‘currentExperimentId‘ and ‘currentRunId‘. Exposes ‘ML_FLOW_API‘, ‘ML_FLOW_ARTIFACTS_API‘, 

,→ ‘USER_ID‘, and a Ktor ‘HttpClient‘. Does NOT define ‘MLFLOW_HOST‘, ‘MLFLOW_PORT‘, or ‘MLFLOW_VERSION‘ 

,→ –- importing those names causes compilation failures. **‘BaseEvaluationTest<I, O, R>‘** –- abstract JUnit 5 base class (‘@TestInstance(PER_CLASS)‘). Calls ‘ 

,→ TracingFlowProcessor.setup()‘ in ‘@BeforeAll‘. Subclasses implement ‘testCases()‘, ‘model()‘, and ‘ 

,→ testFunctions()‘. Lives in ‘src/main/kotlin‘; concrete runnable subclasses must be in ‘src/test/kotlin‘. 

,→

**‘EvalUtils.kt‘** –- defines: - ‘data class TestCase<I>(val input: I)‘ - ‘abstract class EvaluationCriteria<O, R>(val name: String, val resultExpected: R? = null)‘ –- **two type 

,→ parameters only**. Any code referencing it with three type arguments (‘EvaluationCriteria<I, O, R>‘) 

,→ will fail to compile. - ‘interface Generator<I, O>‘ with ‘suspend fun generate(input: I): O‘, ‘val prompt: String‘, ‘val 

,→ temperature: Double‘, ‘val model: AIModel‘ 

44 - ‘RunTag‘, ‘EvalResultsTable‘, ‘TestInfo‘, ‘RunResults‘ **‘Logging.kt‘** –- ‘logArtifact(client: MlflowClient, runId: String, file: File)‘ –- the first argument 

,→ is ‘MlflowClient‘, not a ‘String‘. Also defines suspend helper functions (‘updateRun‘, ‘logModel‘, ‘ 

,→ getRun‘, ‘setTag‘, ‘uploadArtifact‘, ‘createExperiment‘, ‘createRun‘, etc.) used by ‘BaseEvaluationTest 

,→ ‘ and the fluent tracing layer. **‘HaikuGenerator‘** –- implements ‘Generator<String, String>‘. Uses ‘AIModel‘ and ‘createOpenAIClient()‘. **‘createOpenAIClient()‘** –- builds ‘OpenAIOkHttpClient‘ from environment variables; patches it with ‘ 

,→ MLFlowOpenAILogger‘ interceptor via reflection on ‘OpenAIClientImpl.clientOptions‘. **‘TracingFlowProcessor.setup()‘** –- initializes OpenTelemetry SDK (‘SdkTracerProvider‘ + ‘ 

,→ SimpleSpanProcessor(RootSpanExporter)‘) and installs the ByteBuddy agent. Must be called before any 

,→ traced code runs. **‘TracingFlowDecoratorAgent‘** –- ByteBuddy agent targeting packages ‘"ai"‘ and ‘"org.example"‘. 

,→ Transforms methods annotated with ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ to delegate to ‘TracedMethodInterceptor‘. ### ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ Annotation ‘‘‘kotlin @Retention(AnnotationRetention.RUNTIME) annotation class KotlinFlowTrace( val name: String = "", val spanType: String = SpanType.UNKNOWN, val attributeHandler: SpanAttributeHandlerType = SpanAttributeHandlerType.FUNCTION )‘‘‘ **Known limitations:** - Does not work with ‘suspend‘ functions (ByteBuddy approach) - Requires ‘-java-parameters‘ compiler flag for parameter names to be visible at runtime ### ‘FluentSpanAttributes‘ Enum (Variant A) | Constant | Key | |---|---| | ‘MLFLOW_SPAN_INPUTS‘ | ‘"mlflow.spanInputs"‘ | | ‘MLFLOW_SPAN_OUTPUTS‘ | ‘"mlflow.spanOutputs"‘ | | ‘MLFLOW_SOURCE_RUN‘ | ‘"mlflow.sourceRun"‘ | | ‘MLFLOW_SPAN_FUNCTION_NAME‘ | ‘"mlflow.spanFunctionName"‘ | | ‘MLFLOW_SPAN_SOURCE_NAME‘ | ‘"mlflow.source.name"‘ | | ‘MLFLOW_SPAN_TYPE‘ | ‘"mlflow.spanType"‘ | ### Build and Test ‘‘‘bash ./gradlew compileKotlin # compile main sources ./gradlew compileTestKotlin # compile test sources ./gradlew test # run all tests (JUnit Platform) ‘‘‘ Test reports: ‘build/reports/tests/test/index.html‘ MLflow server expected at ‘http://localhost:5001‘ by default. Integration tests that require a live MLflow 

,→ server will fail with ‘java.net.ConnectException‘ in environments without one –- this is an 

,→ infrastructure constraint, not a code defect. ‘TestLogging‘ and container-based tests use 

,→ Testcontainers with MLflow image version ‘2.20.2‘. ---## Variant B: Multi-Module Library ### Module Structure ‘‘‘ ai-dev-kit-tracing/ # KMP: commonMain, jvmMain, jsMain, jvmTest ai-dev-kit-eval/ # JVM-only evaluation framework ai-dev-kit-plugin/ ai-dev-kit-trace-gradle/ # Gradle plugin (composite build) ai-dev-kit-trace-plugin/ # Kotlin compiler plugin ai-dev-kit-tracking-providers/ ai-dev-kit-tracking-langfuse/ ai-dev-kit-tracking-wandb/ examples/ ‘‘‘ ### ‘ai-dev-kit-tracing‘ KMP Structure 

45 - ‘commonMain‘ –- ‘expect‘ declarations for ‘SpanData‘, ‘SpanBuilder‘, ‘Span‘, ‘withTrace‘, ‘ 

,→ withTraceSuspended‘, ‘TracingSessionProvider‘, ‘BaseSpanAttributeHandler‘, ‘PlatformMethod‘ - ‘jvmMain‘ –- ‘actual‘ implementations backed by OpenTelemetry SDK; ‘PlatformMethod‘ is ‘typealias‘ for ‘ 

,→ java.lang.reflect.Method‘ - ‘jsMain‘ –- stub ‘actual‘ implementations; most throw ‘NotImplementedError‘. OpenTelemetry is JVM-only. ### ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ Annotation (Variant B) The compiler plugin rewrites annotated functions at compile time to wrap the body in ‘withTrace‘ (non-

,→ suspending) or ‘withTraceSuspended‘ (suspending). Disable the plugin with ‘enableAiDevKitPlugin=false‘ 

,→ in ‘gradle.properties‘. ### ‘FluentSpanAttributes‘ Enum (Variant B) | Constant | Key | |---|---| | ‘SPAN_INPUTS‘ | ‘"input"‘ | | ‘SPAN_OUTPUTS‘ | ‘"output"‘ | | ‘SOURCE_RUN‘ | ‘"session.id"‘ | | ‘SPAN_FUNCTION_NAME‘ | ‘"code.function.name"‘ | | ‘SPAN_SOURCE_NAME‘ | ‘"source.name"‘ | | ‘SPAN_TYPE‘ | ‘"spanType"‘ | | ‘TRACE_CREATION_INFO‘ | ‘"traceCreationInfo"‘ | | ‘TRACE_TAGS‘ | ‘"tags"‘ | ### ‘TracingSessionProvider‘ (JVM) ‘‘‘kotlin withProjectId("my-project") { // TracingSessionProvider.currentProjectId == "my-project" }withProjectIdBlocking("my-project") { ... } ‘‘‘ Backed by OpenTelemetry ‘Context‘ with ‘ContextKey‘. JS stubs throw ‘TODO‘. ### ‘BaseSpanAttributeHandler‘ Implements ‘SpanAttributeHandler‘. ‘processInput‘ serializes method parameters to a JSON object (parameter 

,→ name → value), filtering out ‘Continuation‘ parameters. Handlers must be Kotlin ‘object‘ singletons. ### Build ‘‘‘bash ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-tracing:compileKotlinJvm ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-tracing:compileTestKotlinJvm ./gradlew :ai-dev-kit-tracing:jvmTest ‘‘‘ JVM target: JVM 17. Compiler option ‘-Xexpect-actual-classes‘ applied to all source sets. ---## Common Pitfalls ### 1. Wrong number of type arguments on ‘EvaluationCriteria‘ ‘EvaluationCriteria‘ declares **two** type parameters ‘<O, R>‘. Using three (‘<I, O, R>‘) causes a cascade 

,→ of compiler errors: "Cannot infer type for this parameter", "Unresolved reference ’name’", "Unresolved 

,→ reference ’evaluate’", "Unresolved reference ’resultExpected’". Fix all usages to match the two-

,→ parameter signature. ### 2. Missing constants on ‘KotlinMlflowClient‘ ‘KotlinMlflowClient‘ does not define ‘MLFLOW_HOST‘, ‘MLFLOW_PORT‘, or ‘MLFLOW_VERSION‘. Importing those 

,→ names causes compilation failures. Add them to the singleton or define them locally. ### 3. ‘logArtifact‘ argument order Signature: ‘logArtifact(client: MlflowClient, runId: String, file: File)‘. Passing a ‘String‘ as the first 

,→ argument causes a type-mismatch error. ### 4. Suspend functions called from non-suspend contexts Functions like ‘uploadArtifact‘, ‘createExperiment‘, and ‘createRun‘ are ‘suspend‘. Calling them from a 

,→ non-suspend context (e.g. a JUnit ‘@BeforeAll‘/‘@AfterAll‘) requires wrapping in ‘runBlocking { ... }‘. 

,→ The compiler error is: "Suspend function should be called only from a coroutine or another suspend 

,→ function." ### 5. ‘createRun‘ resolution ambiguity ‘org.example.ai.mlflow.createRun‘ is a Kotlin suspend function ‘(runName: String, experimentId: String)‘. 

,→ If the compiler reports candidates from ‘org.mlflow.tracking.MlflowClient‘ (0-arg, ‘String‘, or ‘ 

,→ Service.CreateRun‘ overloads), the call site is resolving to the Java SDK instead. Check imports and 

,→ ensure the correct ‘org.example.ai.mlflow.*‘ import is present. 

46 ### 6. Tracing and suspend functions (Variant A) ‘@KotlinFlowTrace‘ (ByteBuddy approach) does not work with ‘suspend‘ functions. Variant B’s compiler 

,→ plugin supports ‘withTraceSuspended‘. ### 7. ‘-java-parameters‘ flag Required for method parameter names to be visible at runtime for tracing attribute capture. ### 8. Missing symbols in ‘jvmTest‘ (Variant B) Functions like ‘setSdkForTest‘ and ‘tracer‘ used in test sources must be defined within the ‘jvmTest‘ 

,→ source set of ‘ai-dev-kit-tracing‘. Missing definitions cause ‘Unresolved reference‘ errors at ‘:ai-dev-

,→ kit-tracing:compileTestKotlinJvm‘. ### 9. Missing production functions referenced by tests (Variant B) If a test imports a function (e.g. ‘withSpan‘) from a production package and that function does not yet 

,→ exist, add it to the appropriate production source file before investigating further. For JVM-only 

,→ functions, add to the ‘jvmMain‘ actual layer (e.g. ‘ai-dev-kit-tracing/src/jvmMain/kotlin/.../processor 

,→ /Utils.kt‘). ### 10. Package names in ByteBuddy agent ‘TracingFlowDecoratorAgent‘ hardcodes package matchers (‘"ai"‘, ‘"org.example"‘). Classes outside these 

,→ packages will not be instrumented. ### 11. Abstract test base classes If ‘BaseEvaluationTest‘ or any abstract test base class lives in ‘src/main/kotlin‘, Gradle’s ‘:test‘ task 

,→ will not discover it as a runnable test. Concrete subclasses with ‘@Test‘-annotated methods must be 

,→ placed in ‘src/test/kotlin‘. ---## Working Effectively - **Verify compilation before running tests.** Use ‘./gradlew compileKotlin‘ (and ‘./gradlew 

,→ compileTestKotlin‘) to surface type errors cheaply before a full test run. - **Read actual ‘package‘ declarations.** Directory structure does not always match package names in this 

,→ repository. - **Write the fix first, then verify.** When a missing function or constant is identified, add it and 

,→ confirm with a build command rather than continuing to explore. - **Report unverifiable results explicitly.** If integration tests require external services (MLflow 

,→ server, OpenAI API), state what was changed, what was verified by compilation, and what remains 

,→ unverifiable. 

47 J Agent patches for the two open koog issues 

The six patches behind table 2, reviewed anonymized by the maintainer. 

Issue #1275, no SKILL 

diff --git a/docs/docs/prompts/prompt-creation/cache-control.md b/docs/docs/prompts/prompt-creation/cache-

,→ control.md index a76fbb37c..faa14d2b7 100644 --- a/docs/docs/prompts/prompt-creation/cache-control.md +++ b/docs/docs/prompts/prompt-creation/cache-control.md @@ -246,14 +246,21 @@ for current pricing. ### Monitoring cache usage -Anthropic reports cache statistics in the response usage. These are accessible via the -raw API response and can be observed through tracing or logging features. +Cache statistics are exposed on the response message via ‘metaInfo.metadata‘: -| Field | Meaning |+‘‘‘kotlin +val cacheRead = response.metaInfo.metadata?.get("cacheReadInputTokens")?.jsonPrimitive?.intOrNull ?: 0 +‘‘‘ ++| Key | Meaning ||-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------| | ‘cacheReadInputTokens‘ | Tokens read from an existing cache entry || ‘cacheCreationInputTokens‘ | Tokens written to a new cache entry |+‘metadata‘ is ‘null‘ when the provider reports no cache usage. OpenAI (‘cached_tokens‘) and +Google (‘cachedContentTokenCount‘) report cache reads under the same ‘cacheReadInputTokens‘ key; +‘cacheCreationInputTokens‘ is Anthropic- and Bedrock-specific. +### Combining automatic and block-level caching Both modes can be used simultaneously. Block-level ‘cacheControl‘ markers give you fine-grained diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/build.gradle. 

,→ kts b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/build.gradle.kts index 88bd42377..36f88b748 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/build.gradle.kts +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/build.gradle.kts @@ -31,6 +31,7 @@ kotlin { jvmTest { dependencies { implementation(project(":http-client:http-client-ktor")) + implementation(project(":http-client:http-client-test")) implementation(libs.ktor.client.cio) }}diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/ 

,→ commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicLLMClient.kt b/prompt/prompt-

,→ executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/ 

,→ executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicLLMClient.kt index bcb7aa157..ca92fb89c 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicLLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicLLMClient.kt @@ -194,9 +194,14 @@ public open class AnthropicLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( var inputTokens: Int? = null var outputTokens: Int? = null + var cacheReadInputTokens: Int? = null + var cacheCreationInputTokens: Int? = null +fun updateUsage(usage: AnthropicUsage) { inputTokens = usage.inputTokens ?: inputTokens outputTokens = usage.outputTokens ?: outputTokens + cacheReadInputTokens = usage.cacheReadInputTokens ?: cacheReadInputTokens + cacheCreationInputTokens = usage.cacheCreationInputTokens ?: cacheCreationInputTokens }fun getMetaInfo(): ResponseMetaInfo = ResponseMetaInfo.create( @@ -204,6 +209,10 @@ public open class AnthropicLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( totalTokensCount = inputTokens?.plus(outputTokens ?: 0) ?: outputTokens, inputTokensCount = inputTokens, outputTokensCount = outputTokens, + metadata = buildJsonObject { + cacheCreationInputTokens?.let { put("cacheCreationInputTokens", it) } 

48 + cacheReadInputTokens?.let { put("cacheReadInputTokens", it) } + }.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() }, )try { diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/jvmTest/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicStreamingUsageTest.kt b/prompt/prompt-

,→ executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/ 

,→ executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicStreamingUsageTest.kt new file mode 100644 index 000000000..3973faff7 --- /dev/null +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicStreamingUsageTest.kt @@ -0,0 +1,52 @@ +package ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.anthropic ++import ai.koog.http.client.ktor.KtorKoogHttpClient +import ai.koog.http.client.test.MockWebServer +import ai.koog.prompt.dsl.prompt +import ai.koog.prompt.streaming.StreamFrame +import kotlinx.coroutines.flow.toList +import kotlinx.coroutines.test.runTest +import kotlinx.serialization.json.int +import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonPrimitive +import kotlin.test.AfterTest +import kotlin.test.Test +import kotlin.test.assertEquals +import kotlin.test.assertNotNull ++class AnthropicStreamingUsageTest { ++ private val server = MockWebServer() ++ @AfterTest + fun tearDown() { + server.stop() + }++ private val events = listOf( + """{"type":"message_start","message":{"id":"msg_1","type":"message","role":"assistant","content 

,→ ":[],"model":"claude","usage":{"input_tokens":10,"output_tokens":1,"cache_read_input_tokens":120," 

,→ cache_creation_input_tokens":30}}}""", + """{"type":"content_block_start","index":0,"content_block":{"type":"text","text":"Hi"}}""", + """{"type":"message_delta","delta":{"stop_reason":"end_turn"},"usage":{"output_tokens":5}}""", + """{"type":"message_stop"}""", + )++ @Test + fun testStreamingMetaInfoExposesCacheTokensInMetadata() = runTest { + server.start(sseEndpoints = listOf(MockWebServer.SSEEndpointConfig("/v1/messages", events))) ++ val client = AnthropicLLMClient( + apiKey = "test-key", + settings = AnthropicClientSettings(baseUrl = server.url()), + httpClientFactory = KtorKoogHttpClient.Factory() + )++ val frames = client.executeStreaming( + prompt = prompt("test") { user("Hi") }, + model = AnthropicModels.Sonnet_4 + ).toList() ++ val end = frames.filterIsInstance<StreamFrame.End>().single() + val metadata = assertNotNull(end.metaInfo?.metadata) + assertEquals(120, metadata["cacheReadInputTokens"]?.jsonPrimitive?.int) + assertEquals(30, metadata["cacheCreationInputTokens"]?.jsonPrimitive?.int) + }+} diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-

,→ executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/ 

,→ google/GoogleLLMClient.kt index cff373902..2a555b117 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt @@ -27,6 +27,7 @@ import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleRequest import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleResponse import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleTool 

49 import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleToolConfig +import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleUsageMetadata import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleBasicJsonSchemaGenerator import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleResponseFormat import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleStandardJsonSchemaGenerator @@ -198,6 +199,7 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( totalTokensCount = it.totalTokenCount, inputTokensCount = it.promptTokenCount, outputTokensCount = it.candidatesTokenCount, + metadata = it.cacheMetadata(), )}response.candidates.firstOrNull()?.let { candidate -> @@ -756,6 +758,10 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( )}+ private fun GoogleUsageMetadata.cacheMetadata(): JsonObject? = buildJsonObject { + cachedContentTokenCount?.let { put("cacheReadInputTokens", it) } + }.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() } +/** * Processes the Google AI API response into a list of choices. *@@ -777,7 +783,8 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock, totalTokensCount = totalTokensCount, inputTokensCount = inputTokensCount, - outputTokensCount = outputTokensCount + outputTokensCount = outputTokensCount, + metadata = response.usageMetadata?.cacheMetadata() )return response.candidates.map { candidate -> diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/ 

,→ prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/ 

,→ clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt index 2905490b7..88267bf23 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt @@ -481,6 +481,7 @@ internal class GooglePromptFeedback( internal class GoogleUsageMetadata( val promptTokenCount: Int? = null, val candidatesTokenCount: Int? = null, + val cachedContentTokenCount: Int? = null, val toolUsePromptTokenCount: Int? = null, val thoughtsTokenCount: Int? = null, val totalTokenCount: Int? = null, diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/jvmTest/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleModelsTest.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-

,→ executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/ 

,→ google/GoogleModelsTest.kt index 1afb72dfc..844b7706a 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleModelsTest.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleModelsTest.kt @@ -14,11 +14,31 @@ import io.ktor.http.HttpStatusCode import io.ktor.http.headersOf import io.ktor.utils.io.ByteReadChannel import kotlinx.coroutines.test.runTest +import kotlinx.serialization.json.int +import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonPrimitive import kotlin.test.Test import kotlin.test.assertEquals import kotlin.test.assertNotNull import kotlin.test.assertSame +private val cachedResponse: String = """ + {+ "candidates": [ + {+ "content": {"role": "model", "parts": [{"text": "Paris"}]}, + "finishReason": "STOP", + "index": 0 + }+ ], + "usageMetadata": { 

50 + "promptTokenCount": 36, + "candidatesTokenCount": 4, + "cachedContentTokenCount": 30, + "totalTokenCount": 40 + }+ }+""".trimIndent() +// "Bad" request from Gemini with missing ‘parts‘ field private val badRequest: String = """ {@@ -62,6 +82,30 @@ class GoogleModelsTest { }}+ @Test + fun testCachedContentTokensAreExposedInMetaInfoMetadata() = runTest { + val mockEngine = MockEngine { _ -> + respond( + content = ByteReadChannel(cachedResponse), + status = HttpStatusCode.OK, + headers = headersOf(HttpHeaders.ContentType, "application/json") + )+ }++ val googleClient = GoogleLLMClient( + apiKey = "test-key", + httpClientFactory = KtorKoogHttpClient.Factory(HttpClient(mockEngine)) + )++ val response = googleClient.execute( + prompt = prompt("test") { user("What is the capital of France?") }, + model = GoogleModels.Gemini2_5Flash + )++ val metadata = assertNotNull(response.metaInfo.metadata) + assertEquals(30, metadata["cacheReadInputTokens"]?.jsonPrimitive?.int) + }+@Test fun ‘Test when FLASH_2_5 returns no parts GoogleLLMClient does not fail‘() = runTest { val mockEngine = MockEngine { _ -> diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/ 

,→ commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt b/prompt/ 

,→ prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt index a3929143f..b82acb31e 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt @@ -39,7 +39,9 @@ import kotlinx.coroutines.flow.channelFlow import kotlinx.serialization.json.Json import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonNamingStrategy import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonObject +import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonObject +import kotlinx.serialization.json.put import kotlin.io.encoding.ExperimentalEncodingApi import kotlin.jvm.JvmOverloads import kotlin.uuid.ExperimentalUuidApi @@ -527,7 +529,10 @@ public abstract class AbstractOpenAILLMClient<TResponse : OpenAIBaseLLMResponse, clock, totalTokensCount = usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = usage?.promptTokens, - outputTokensCount = usage?.completionTokens + outputTokensCount = usage?.completionTokens, + metadata = buildJsonObject { + usage?.promptTokensDetails?.cachedTokens?.let { put("cacheReadInputTokens", it) } + }.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() } )protected open fun createResponseFormat(schema: LLMParams.Schema?, model: LLModel): 

,→ OpenAIResponseFormat? { diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-

,→ executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/ 

,→ openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt index 5eafcdd7f..660d49eaf 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt 

51 +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt @@ -65,6 +65,7 @@ import kotlinx.coroutines.coroutineScope import kotlinx.coroutines.flow.Flow import kotlinx.coroutines.withContext import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonElement +import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonPrimitive import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonArray import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonObject @@ -445,7 +446,8 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock = clock, totalTokensCount = usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = usage?.inputTokens, - outputTokensCount = usage?.outputTokens + outputTokensCount = usage?.outputTokens, + metadata = usage?.cacheMetadata() )})@@ -984,6 +986,10 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( }}+ private fun OpenAIResponsesAPIResponse.Usage.cacheMetadata(): JsonObject? = buildJsonObject { + put("cacheReadInputTokens", inputTokensDetails.cachedTokens) + }.takeIf { inputTokensDetails.cachedTokens > 0 } +private fun processResponsesAPIResponse(response: OpenAIResponsesAPIResponse): Message.Assistant { require(response.output.isNotEmpty()) { "Empty output in response" } @@ -991,7 +997,8 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock, totalTokensCount = response.usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = response.usage?.inputTokens, - outputTokensCount = response.usage?.outputTokens + outputTokensCount = response.usage?.outputTokens, + metadata = response.usage?.cacheMetadata() )var finishReason: String? = null diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt b/prompt/prompt-

,→ executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/ 

,→ executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt index ed2905648..82a6bf216 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt @@ -23,6 +23,7 @@ import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonPrimitive import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.contentOrNull +import kotlinx.serialization.json.int import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonArray import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonPrimitive @@ -30,6 +31,7 @@ import kotlin.test.Test import kotlin.test.assertEquals import kotlin.test.assertIs import kotlin.test.assertNotNull +import kotlin.test.assertNull import kotlin.time.Instant class OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest { @@ -90,6 +92,59 @@ class OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest { }""".trimIndent() + //language=json + private val cachedUsageResponseBody = """ + {+ "id": "chatcmpl-cached", + "object": "chat.completion", + "created": 1716920005, + "model": "gpt-4o", + "choices": [ + {+ "index": 0, + "message": {"role": "assistant", "content": "Cached."}, 

52 + "finish_reason": "stop" + }+ ], + "usage": { + "total_tokens": 10, + "prompt_tokens": 5, + "completion_tokens": 5, + "prompt_tokens_details": {"cached_tokens": 4} + }+ }+ """.trimIndent() ++ private suspend fun executeWith(responseBody: String): Message.Assistant { + val engine = MockEngine { _ -> + respond( + content = responseBody, + status = HttpStatusCode.OK, + headers = headersOf(HttpHeaders.ContentType, ContentType.Application.Json.toString()) + )+ }+ val client = OpenAILLMClient( + httpClientFactory = KtorKoogHttpClient.Factory(HttpClient(engine) {}), + apiKey = key, + clock = FixedClock + )+ val prompt = Prompt.build(id = "p-usage", clock = FixedClock, params = OpenAIChatParams()) { + user("Hi") + }+ return client.execute(prompt, OpenAIModels.Chat.GPT4o) + }++ @Test + fun testCachedPromptTokensAreExposedInMetaInfoMetadata() = runTest { + val metadata = assertNotNull(executeWith(cachedUsageResponseBody).metaInfo.metadata) + assertEquals(4, metadata["cacheReadInputTokens"]?.jsonPrimitive?.int) + }++ @Test + fun testMetaInfoMetadataIsNullWhenNoCachedTokensReported() = runTest { + assertNull(executeWith(plainResponseBody).metaInfo.metadata) + }+@Test fun testExecuteToolCallResponsePreservesReasoningMessage() = runTest { val engine = MockEngine.Companion { _ -> diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIResponseDecodingTest.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/ 

,→ prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/ 

,→ clients/openai/OpenAIResponseDecodingTest.kt index ba407aa74..2368e6138 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIResponseDecodingTest.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIResponseDecodingTest.kt @@ -12,12 +12,67 @@ import io.ktor.http.HttpStatusCode import io.ktor.http.headersOf import kotlinx.coroutines.test.runTest import kotlinx.serialization.SerializationException +import kotlinx.serialization.json.int +import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonPrimitive import kotlin.test.Test +import kotlin.test.assertEquals import kotlin.test.assertFailsWith import kotlin.test.assertIs +import kotlin.test.assertNotNull class OpenAIResponseDecodingTest { + //language=json + private val responsesApiCachedBody = """ + {+ "id": "resp_1", + "created_at": 1716920005, + "model": "gpt-4o", + "status": "completed", + "parallel_tool_calls": false, + "text": {}, + "output": [ + {+ "type": "message", + "id": "msg_1", 

53 + "role": "assistant", + "status": "completed", + "content": [{"type": "output_text", "text": "Hi", "annotations": []}] + }+ ], + "usage": { + "input_tokens": 100, + "input_tokens_details": {"cached_tokens": 80}, + "output_tokens": 5, + "output_tokens_details": {"reasoning_tokens": 0}, + "total_tokens": 105 + }+ }+ """.trimIndent() ++ @Test + fun testResponsesApiCachedTokensAreExposedInMetaInfoMetadata() = runTest { + val engine = MockEngine { _ -> + respond( + content = responsesApiCachedBody, + status = HttpStatusCode.OK, + headers = headersOf(HttpHeaders.ContentType, ContentType.Application.Json.toString()) + )+ }+ val client = OpenAILLMClient( + apiKey = "test-key", + httpClientFactory = KtorKoogHttpClient.Factory(baseClient = HttpClient(engine) {}) + )+ val prompt = Prompt.build(id = "p-responses-usage", params = OpenAIResponsesParams()) { + user("Hi") + }++ val response = client.execute(prompt, OpenAIModels.Chat.GPT4o) ++ val metadata = assertNotNull(response.metaInfo.metadata) + assertEquals(80, metadata["cacheReadInputTokens"]?.jsonPrimitive?.int) + }+@Test fun testExecuteWrapsDecodeFailureInLLMClientException() = runTest { // Given: client returning malformed json diff --git a/prompt/prompt-model/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/message/Message.kt b/prompt/prompt-

,→ model/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/message/Message.kt index 99e562dd9..ae608c7a2 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-model/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/message/Message.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-model/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/message/Message.kt @@ -492,6 +492,8 @@ public data class RequestMetaInfo @JvmOverloads constructor( * @property outputTokensCount The number of tokens generated in the output, or null if not available. * @property metadata Additional metadata as a JSON object. * This can be used to store custom metadata that doesn’t fit into the standard fields. 

,→

+ * Clients that report prompt cache usage put it here under the ‘cacheReadInputTokens‘ + * (tokens served from cache) and ‘cacheCreationInputTokens‘ (tokens written to cache) 

,→ keys. * @property timestamp The timestamp indicating when the response was created. * @property modelId The ID of the model used for generating the response, or null if not available. * @property metadata Additional metadata associated with the response, or null if not available. 

Issue #1275, GEPA SKILL 

diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/ 

,→ commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicLLMClient.kt b/prompt/prompt-

,→ executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/ 

,→ executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicLLMClient.kt index bcb7aa157..8a2fc48bb 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicLLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-anthropic-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/anthropic/AnthropicLLMClient.kt @@ -193,10 +193,14 @@ public open class AnthropicLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( return buildStreamFrameFlow { var inputTokens: Int? = null var outputTokens: Int? = null + var cacheCreationInputTokens: Int? = null + var cacheReadInputTokens: Int? = null fun updateUsage(usage: AnthropicUsage) { inputTokens = usage.inputTokens ?: inputTokens outputTokens = usage.outputTokens ?: outputTokens + cacheCreationInputTokens = usage.cacheCreationInputTokens ?: cacheCreationInputTokens 

54 + cacheReadInputTokens = usage.cacheReadInputTokens ?: cacheReadInputTokens }fun getMetaInfo(): ResponseMetaInfo = ResponseMetaInfo.create( @@ -204,6 +208,10 @@ public open class AnthropicLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( totalTokensCount = inputTokens?.plus(outputTokens ?: 0) ?: outputTokens, inputTokensCount = inputTokens, outputTokensCount = outputTokens, + metadata = buildJsonObject { + cacheCreationInputTokens?.let { put("cacheCreationInputTokens", it) } + cacheReadInputTokens?.let { put("cacheReadInputTokens", it) } + }.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() }, )try { diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-

,→ executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/ 

,→ google/GoogleLLMClient.kt index cff373902..7cb648f49 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt @@ -27,6 +27,7 @@ import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleRequest import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleResponse import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleTool import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleToolConfig +import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleUsageMetadata import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleBasicJsonSchemaGenerator import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleResponseFormat import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleStandardJsonSchemaGenerator @@ -198,6 +199,7 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( totalTokensCount = it.totalTokenCount, inputTokensCount = it.promptTokenCount, outputTokensCount = it.candidatesTokenCount, + metadata = it.tokenDetailsMetadata(), )}response.candidates.firstOrNull()?.let { candidate -> @@ -777,7 +779,8 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock, totalTokensCount = totalTokensCount, inputTokensCount = inputTokensCount, - outputTokensCount = outputTokensCount + outputTokensCount = outputTokensCount, + metadata = response.usageMetadata?.tokenDetailsMetadata() )return response.candidates.map { candidate -> @@ -924,3 +927,8 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( httpClient.close() }}++private fun GoogleUsageMetadata.tokenDetailsMetadata(): JsonObject? = buildJsonObject { + cachedContentTokenCount?.let { put("cachedInputTokens", it) } + thoughtsTokenCount?.let { put("reasoningTokens", it) } +}.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() } diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/ 

,→ prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/ 

,→ clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt index 2905490b7..3b7f5368f 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt @@ -473,6 +473,7 @@ internal class GooglePromptFeedback( * When cachedContent is set, this is still the total effective prompt size, * meaning this includes the number of tokens in the cached content. * @property candidatesTokenCount Total number of tokens across all the generated response candidates. + * @property cachedContentTokenCount Number of tokens in the cached part of the prompt (the cached 

,→ content). * @property toolUsePromptTokenCount Number of tokens present in tool-use prompt(s). * @property thoughtsTokenCount Number of tokens of thoughts for thinking models. * @property totalTokenCount Total token count for the generation request (prompt plus response 

,→ candidates). @@ -481,6 +482,7 @@ internal class GooglePromptFeedback( internal class GoogleUsageMetadata( val promptTokenCount: Int? = null, 

55 val candidatesTokenCount: Int? = null, + val cachedContentTokenCount: Int? = null, val toolUsePromptTokenCount: Int? = null, val thoughtsTokenCount: Int? = null, val totalTokenCount: Int? = null, diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/ 

,→ commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt b/prompt/ 

,→ prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt index a3929143f..cb03fe5d5 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt @@ -39,7 +39,9 @@ import kotlinx.coroutines.flow.channelFlow import kotlinx.serialization.json.Json import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonNamingStrategy import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonObject +import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonObject +import kotlinx.serialization.json.put import kotlin.io.encoding.ExperimentalEncodingApi import kotlin.jvm.JvmOverloads import kotlin.uuid.ExperimentalUuidApi @@ -527,7 +529,11 @@ public abstract class AbstractOpenAILLMClient<TResponse : OpenAIBaseLLMResponse, clock, totalTokensCount = usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = usage?.promptTokens, - outputTokensCount = usage?.completionTokens + outputTokensCount = usage?.completionTokens, + metadata = buildJsonObject { + usage?.promptTokensDetails?.cachedTokens?.let { put("cachedInputTokens", it) } + usage?.completionTokensDetails?.reasoningTokens?.let { put("reasoningTokens", it) } + }.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() } )protected open fun createResponseFormat(schema: LLMParams.Schema?, model: LLModel): 

,→ OpenAIResponseFormat? { diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-

,→ executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/ 

,→ openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt index 5eafcdd7f..a27f8ef10 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt @@ -65,6 +65,7 @@ import kotlinx.coroutines.coroutineScope import kotlinx.coroutines.flow.Flow import kotlinx.coroutines.withContext import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonElement +import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonPrimitive import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonArray import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonObject @@ -445,7 +446,8 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock = clock, totalTokensCount = usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = usage?.inputTokens, - outputTokensCount = usage?.outputTokens + outputTokensCount = usage?.outputTokens, + metadata = usage?.tokenDetailsMetadata() )})@@ -991,7 +993,8 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock, totalTokensCount = response.usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = response.usage?.inputTokens, - outputTokensCount = response.usage?.outputTokens + outputTokensCount = response.usage?.outputTokens, + metadata = response.usage?.tokenDetailsMetadata() )var finishReason: String? = null @@ -1086,3 +1089,8 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( action: (OpenAIParams) -> T ): T = action(determineParams(prompt.params, model)) }++private fun OpenAIResponsesAPIResponse.Usage.tokenDetailsMetadata(): JsonObject = buildJsonObject { 

56 + put("cachedInputTokens", inputTokensDetails.cachedTokens) + put("reasoningTokens", outputTokensDetails.reasoningTokens) +} diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt b/prompt/prompt-

,→ executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/ 

,→ executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt index ed2905648..9a243e917 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt @@ -23,6 +23,7 @@ import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonPrimitive import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.contentOrNull +import kotlinx.serialization.json.int import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonArray import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonPrimitive @@ -90,6 +91,51 @@ class OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest { }""".trimIndent() + //language=json + private val responseWithCachedTokensBody = """ + {+ "id": "chatcmpl-cached", + "object": "chat.completion", + "created": 1716920005, + "model": "gpt-4o", + "choices": [ + {+ "index": 0, + "message": {"role": "assistant", "content": "Hi."}, + "finish_reason": "stop" + }+ ], + "usage": { + "total_tokens": 10, + "prompt_tokens": 5, + "completion_tokens": 5, + "prompt_tokens_details": {"cached_tokens": 4}, + "completion_tokens_details": {"reasoning_tokens": 3} + }+ }+ """.trimIndent() ++ @Test + fun testCachedAndReasoningTokensAreExposedInMetaInfoMetadata() = runTest { + val engine = MockEngine { _ -> + respond( + content = responseWithCachedTokensBody, + status = HttpStatusCode.OK, + headers = headersOf(HttpHeaders.ContentType, ContentType.Application.Json.toString()) + )+ }+ val http = HttpClient(engine) {} + val client = OpenAILLMClient(httpClientFactory = KtorKoogHttpClient.Factory(http), apiKey = key, 

,→ clock = FixedClock) ++ val prompt = Prompt.build(id = "p-cached", clock = FixedClock, params = OpenAIChatParams()) { + user("Hello") + }++ val metadata = assertNotNull(client.execute(prompt, OpenAIModels.Chat.GPT4o).metaInfo.metadata) + assertEquals(4, metadata["cachedInputTokens"]?.jsonPrimitive?.int) + assertEquals(3, metadata["reasoningTokens"]?.jsonPrimitive?.int) + }+@Test fun testExecuteToolCallResponsePreservesReasoningMessage() = runTest { val engine = MockEngine.Companion { _ -> 

Issue #1275, SkillOpt SKILL 

diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-

,→ executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/ 

,→ google/GoogleLLMClient.kt 

57 index cff373902..74ca9323c 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/GoogleLLMClient.kt @@ -27,6 +27,7 @@ import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleRequest import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleResponse import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleTool import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleToolConfig +import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.models.GoogleUsageMetadata import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleBasicJsonSchemaGenerator import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleResponseFormat import ai.koog.prompt.executor.clients.google.structure.GoogleStandardJsonSchemaGenerator @@ -198,6 +199,7 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( totalTokensCount = it.totalTokenCount, inputTokensCount = it.promptTokenCount, outputTokensCount = it.candidatesTokenCount, + metadata = it.tokenDetailsMetadata(), )}response.candidates.firstOrNull()?.let { candidate -> @@ -756,6 +758,11 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( )}+ private fun GoogleUsageMetadata.tokenDetailsMetadata(): JsonObject? = buildJsonObject { + cachedContentTokenCount?.let { put("cachedInputTokens", it) } + thoughtsTokenCount?.let { put("reasoningTokens", it) } + }.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() } +/** * Processes the Google AI API response into a list of choices. *@@ -777,7 +784,8 @@ public open class GoogleLLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock, totalTokensCount = totalTokensCount, inputTokensCount = inputTokensCount, - outputTokensCount = outputTokensCount + outputTokensCount = outputTokensCount, + metadata = response.usageMetadata?.tokenDetailsMetadata() )return response.candidates.map { candidate -> diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/ 

,→ prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/ 

,→ clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt index 2905490b7..3b7f5368f 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-google-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/google/models/GoogleGenerateContent.kt @@ -473,6 +473,7 @@ internal class GooglePromptFeedback( * When cachedContent is set, this is still the total effective prompt size, * meaning this includes the number of tokens in the cached content. * @property candidatesTokenCount Total number of tokens across all the generated response candidates. + * @property cachedContentTokenCount Number of tokens in the cached part of the prompt (the cached 

,→ content). * @property toolUsePromptTokenCount Number of tokens present in tool-use prompt(s). * @property thoughtsTokenCount Number of tokens of thoughts for thinking models. * @property totalTokenCount Total token count for the generation request (prompt plus response 

,→ candidates). @@ -481,6 +482,7 @@ internal class GooglePromptFeedback( internal class GoogleUsageMetadata( val promptTokenCount: Int? = null, val candidatesTokenCount: Int? = null, + val cachedContentTokenCount: Int? = null, val toolUsePromptTokenCount: Int? = null, val thoughtsTokenCount: Int? = null, val totalTokenCount: Int? = null, diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/ 

,→ commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt b/prompt/ 

,→ prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt index a3929143f..cb03fe5d5 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client-base/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/base/AbstractOpenAILLMClient.kt @@ -39,7 +39,9 @@ import kotlinx.coroutines.flow.channelFlow import kotlinx.serialization.json.Json 

58 import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonNamingStrategy import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonObject +import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.jsonObject +import kotlinx.serialization.json.put import kotlin.io.encoding.ExperimentalEncodingApi import kotlin.jvm.JvmOverloads import kotlin.uuid.ExperimentalUuidApi @@ -527,7 +529,11 @@ public abstract class AbstractOpenAILLMClient<TResponse : OpenAIBaseLLMResponse, clock, totalTokensCount = usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = usage?.promptTokens, - outputTokensCount = usage?.completionTokens + outputTokensCount = usage?.completionTokens, + metadata = buildJsonObject { + usage?.promptTokensDetails?.cachedTokens?.let { put("cachedInputTokens", it) } + usage?.completionTokensDetails?.reasoningTokens?.let { put("reasoningTokens", it) } + }.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() } )protected open fun createResponseFormat(schema: LLMParams.Schema?, model: LLModel): 

,→ OpenAIResponseFormat? { diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-

,→ executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/ 

,→ openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt index 5eafcdd7f..273f5705e 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/commonMain/kotlin/ 

,→ ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAILLMClient.kt @@ -65,6 +65,7 @@ import kotlinx.coroutines.coroutineScope import kotlinx.coroutines.flow.Flow import kotlinx.coroutines.withContext import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonElement +import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonObject import kotlinx.serialization.json.JsonPrimitive import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonArray import kotlinx.serialization.json.buildJsonObject @@ -445,7 +446,8 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock = clock, totalTokensCount = usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = usage?.inputTokens, - outputTokensCount = usage?.outputTokens + outputTokensCount = usage?.outputTokens, + metadata = usage.tokenDetailsMetadata() )})@@ -984,6 +986,13 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( }}+ private fun OpenAIResponsesAPIResponse.Usage?.tokenDetailsMetadata(): JsonObject? = this?.let { usage 

,→ -> + buildJsonObject { + put("cachedInputTokens", usage.inputTokensDetails.cachedTokens) + put("reasoningTokens", usage.outputTokensDetails.reasoningTokens) + }+ }+private fun processResponsesAPIResponse(response: OpenAIResponsesAPIResponse): Message.Assistant { require(response.output.isNotEmpty()) { "Empty output in response" } @@ -991,7 +1000,8 @@ public open class OpenAILLMClient @JvmOverloads constructor( clock, totalTokensCount = response.usage?.totalTokens, inputTokensCount = response.usage?.inputTokens, - outputTokensCount = response.usage?.outputTokens + outputTokensCount = response.usage?.outputTokens, + metadata = response.usage.tokenDetailsMetadata() )var finishReason: String? = null diff --git a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/ 

,→ kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt b/prompt/prompt-

,→ executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/koog/prompt/ 

,→ executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt index ed2905648..8e529f3ab 100644 --- a/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt 

59 +++ b/prompt/prompt-executor/prompt-executor-clients/prompt-executor-openai-client/src/jvmTest/kotlin/ai/ 

,→ koog/prompt/executor/clients/openai/OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest.kt @@ -149,6 +149,52 @@ class OpenAIChatCompletionLLMClientTest { assertEquals("Let me think about this.", delta.reasoningContent) }+ //language=json + private val cachedTokensResponseBody = """ + {+ "id": "chatcmpl-cached", + "object": "chat.completion", + "created": 1716920005, + "model": "gpt-4o", + "choices": [ + {+ "index": 0, + "message": {"role": "assistant", "content": "Cached."}, + "finish_reason": "stop" + }+ ], + "usage": { + "total_tokens": 10, + "prompt_tokens": 5, + "completion_tokens": 5, + "prompt_tokens_details": {"cached_tokens": 4}, + "completion_tokens_details": {"reasoning_tokens": 3} + }+ }+ """.trimIndent() ++ @Test + fun testCachedAndReasoningTokenCountsAreExposedInMetadata() = runTest { + val engine = MockEngine { _ -> + respond( + content = cachedTokensResponseBody, + status = HttpStatusCode.OK, + headers = headersOf(HttpHeaders.ContentType, ContentType.Application.Json.toString()) + )+ }+ val http = HttpClient(engine) {} + val client = OpenAILLMClient(httpClientFactory = KtorKoogHttpClient.Factory(http), apiKey = key, 

,→ clock = FixedClock) ++ val prompt = Prompt.build(id = "p-cached", clock = FixedClock, params = OpenAIChatParams()) { + user("Anything cached?") + }++ val metadata = assertNotNull(client.execute(prompt, OpenAIModels.Chat.GPT4o).metaInfo.metadata) ++ assertEquals(JsonPrimitive(4), metadata["cachedInputTokens"]) + assertEquals(JsonPrimitive(3), metadata["reasoningTokens"]) + }+@Test fun testToolCallArgumentsAreNotDoubleEncodedInRequest() = runTest { var capturedBody: String? = null 

Issue #1354, no SKILL 

diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api b/http-client/http-client-core/ 

,→ api/android/http-client-core.api index 74fd66d68..40f1ff9a9 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api @@ -44,11 +44,13 @@ public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClient$Factory$DefaultImpls { public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClientException : java/lang/Exception { public fun <init> ()V - public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/Throwable;)V - public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/ 

,→ String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V + public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/Throwable;Ljava/util/Map;)V + public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/ 

,→ String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;Ljava/util/Map;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V public final fun getClientName ()Ljava/lang/String; public final fun getErrorBody ()Ljava/lang/String; + public final fun getHeaders ()Ljava/util/Map; public final fun getStatusCode ()Ljava/lang/Integer; 

60 + public final fun header (Ljava/lang/String;)Ljava/lang/String; }public final class ai/koog/http/client/Utils { diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api b/http-client/http-client-core/api/ 

,→ http-client-core.klib.api index 9bc08b46d..9c63d2ed2 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api @@ -32,14 +32,18 @@ abstract interface ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClient : kotlin/AutoCloseable { / }final class ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException : kotlin/Exception { // ai.koog.http.client/ 

,→ KoogHttpClientException|null[0] - constructor <init>(kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/Int? = ..., kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/String? = 

,→ ..., kotlin/Throwable? = ...) // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.<init>|<init>(kotlin. 

,→ String?;kotlin.Int?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.Throwable?){}[0] + constructor <init>(kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/Int? = ..., kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/String? = 

,→ ..., kotlin/Throwable? = ..., kotlin.collections/Map<kotlin/String, kotlin.collections/List<kotlin/ 

,→ String>> = ...) // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.<init>|<init>(kotlin.String?;kotlin.Int 

,→ ?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.Throwable?;kotlin.collections.Map<kotlin.String,kotlin. 

,→ collections.List<kotlin.String>>){}[0] final val clientName // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.clientName|{}clientName[0] final fun <get-clientName>(): kotlin/String? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ clientName.<get-clientName>|<get-clientName>(){}[0] final val errorBody // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.errorBody|{}errorBody[0] final fun <get-errorBody>(): kotlin/String? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ errorBody.<get-errorBody>|<get-errorBody>(){}[0] + final val headers // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.headers|{}headers[0] + final fun <get-headers>(): kotlin.collections/Map<kotlin/String, kotlin.collections/List<kotlin/ 

,→ String>> // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.headers.<get-headers>|<get-headers>(){}[0] final val statusCode // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.statusCode|{}statusCode[0] final fun <get-statusCode>(): kotlin/Int? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ statusCode.<get-statusCode>|<get-statusCode>(){}[0] ++ final fun header(kotlin/String): kotlin/String? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.header 

,→ |header(kotlin.String){}[0] }final fun ai.koog.http.client/mergeHeaders(kotlin/Array<out kotlin.collections/Map<kotlin/String, kotlin/ 

,→ String>>...): kotlin.collections/Map<kotlin/String, kotlin/String> // ai.koog.http.client/mergeHeaders| 

,→ mergeHeaders(kotlin.Array<out|kotlin.collections.Map<kotlin.String,kotlin.String>>...){}[0] diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api b/http-client/http-client-core/api/ 

,→ jvm/http-client-core.api index 74fd66d68..40f1ff9a9 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api @@ -44,11 +44,13 @@ public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClient$Factory$DefaultImpls { public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClientException : java/lang/Exception { public fun <init> ()V - public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/Throwable;)V - public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/ 

,→ String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V + public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/Throwable;Ljava/util/Map;)V + public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/ 

,→ String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;Ljava/util/Map;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V public final fun getClientName ()Ljava/lang/String; public final fun getErrorBody ()Ljava/lang/String; + public final fun getHeaders ()Ljava/util/Map; public final fun getStatusCode ()Ljava/lang/Integer; + public final fun header (Ljava/lang/String;)Ljava/lang/String; }public final class ai/koog/http/client/Utils { diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt b/http-

,→ client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt index 751ce63de..151d73371 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt @@ -1,23 +1,46 @@ package ai.koog.http.client +// ponytail: only rate-limit headers go into the message; the full set may carry cookies and other 

,→ secrets. +private fun isRateLimitHeader(name: String): Boolean = + name.startsWith("x-ratelimit", ignoreCase = true) || + name.startsWith("ratelimit-", ignoreCase = true) || 

61 + name.equals("retry-after", ignoreCase = true) +/** * Base exception class for HTTP clients in koog + * + * @property clientName Name of the client that produced the error. + * @property statusCode HTTP status code of the failed response, if any. + * @property errorBody Raw response body of the failed response, if any. + * @property headers Response headers of the failed response, if any. + * Header names are case-insensitive, use [header] to look a value up. */ public class KoogHttpClientException( public val clientName: String? = null, public val statusCode: Int? = null, public val errorBody: String? = null, message: String? = null, - cause: Throwable? = null + cause: Throwable? = null, + public val headers: Map<String, List<String>> = emptyMap(), ) : Exception( buildString { appendLine("Error from client: ${clientName ?: "unknown client"}") message?.let { appendLine("Message: $it") } statusCode?.let { appendLine("Status code: $it") } + headers.filterKeys(::isRateLimitHeader).takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() }?.let { rateLimitHeaders -> + appendLine("Rate limit headers:") + rateLimitHeaders.forEach { (name, values) -> appendLine("$name: ${values.joinToString(", ")}") 

,→ }+ }errorBody?.let { appendLine("Error body:") appendLine(it) }}, cause -) +) { + /** + * Returns the first value of the response header [name], ignoring case, or ‘null‘ if it is absent. + */ + public fun header(name: String): String? = + headers.entries.firstOrNull { it.key.equals(name, ignoreCase = true) }?.value?.firstOrNull() +} diff --git a/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt b/ 

,→ http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt index ff5c5fa69..aa57bbe34 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -71,6 +71,7 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), errorBody = response.body(), + headers = response.headers().map(), )}@@ -196,6 +197,7 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( KoogHttpClientException( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), + headers = response.headers().map(), ))return@callbackFlow @@ -285,6 +287,7 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( KoogHttpClientException( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), + headers = response.headers().map(), ))return@launch diff --git a/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/ 

,→ KtorKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/ 

,→ KtorKoogHttpClient.kt index 074e01e89..a2f831cee 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/KtorKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/KtorKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -37,6 +37,7 @@ import io.ktor.http.isSuccess import io.ktor.http.takeFrom import io.ktor.serialization.kotlinx.json.json 

62 import io.ktor.util.reflect.TypeInfo +import io.ktor.util.toMap import io.ktor.utils.io.CancellationException import io.ktor.utils.io.readUTF8Line import kotlinx.coroutines.Dispatchers @@ -95,6 +96,7 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.status.value, errorBody = response.bodyAsText(), + headers = response.headers.toMap(), )}@@ -210,7 +212,8 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( statusCode = e.response?.status?.value, errorBody = errorBody, message = e.message, - cause = e + cause = e, + headers = e.response?.headers?.toMap().orEmpty(), )} catch (e: CancellationException) { throw e @@ -250,6 +253,7 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.status.value, errorBody = response.bodyAsText(), + headers = response.headers.toMap(), )}diff --git a/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/ 

,→ OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/ 

,→ OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt index 742f2a89d..9cbd3842a 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -72,6 +72,7 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.code, errorBody = response.body.string(), + headers = response.headers.toMultimap(), )}@@ -209,7 +210,8 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( statusCode = response?.code, errorBody = response?.body?.string(), message = t?.message, - cause = t + cause = t, + headers = response?.headers?.toMultimap().orEmpty(), )logger.error(exception) { exception.message } close(exception) @@ -259,6 +261,7 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.code, errorBody = errorBody, + headers = response.headers.toMultimap(), ))return@launch diff --git a/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/ 

,→ http/client/spring/SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt index c25c6b7c0..df928a29d 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -334,6 +334,7 @@ public class SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient( clientName = clientName, statusCode = statusCode().value(), errorBody = errorBody, + headers = headers().asHttpHeaders(), )private fun Flow<String>.chunkedToLines(): Flow<String> = flow { diff --git a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest. 

,→ kt b/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt 

63 index 2377ea479..cf82c07b0 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt @@ -166,7 +166,8 @@ abstract class BaseKoogHttpClientTest { path = "/fail", responseBody = "Bad things", statusCode = HttpStatusCode.BadRequest, - contentType = ContentType.Text.Plain + contentType = ContentType.Text.Plain, + responseHeaders = mapOf("x-ratelimit-reset-requests" to "6m0s") )))@@ -182,6 +183,8 @@ abstract class BaseKoogHttpClientTest { } catch (e: KoogHttpClientException) { assertEquals(e.clientName, "TestClient") assertEquals(e.statusCode, 400) + assertEquals("6m0s", e.header("X-RateLimit-Reset-Requests")) + assertTrue(e.message!!.contains("x-ratelimit-reset-requests: 6m0s", ignoreCase = true)) }}diff --git a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/MockWebServer.kt b/http-

,→ client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/MockWebServer.kt index 7393d738b..079bc9cbc 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/MockWebServer.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/MockWebServer.kt @@ -53,7 +53,8 @@ class MockWebServer { val statusCode: HttpStatusCode = HttpStatusCode.OK, val contentType: ContentType = ContentType.Text.Plain, val expectedParameters: Map<String, String> = emptyMap(), - val expectedHeaders: Map<String, String> = emptyMap() + val expectedHeaders: Map<String, String> = emptyMap(), + val responseHeaders: Map<String, String> = emptyMap() )/** @@ -153,6 +154,7 @@ class MockWebServer { }}+ config.responseHeaders.forEach { (key, value) -> call.response.header(key, value) 

,→ }call.respondText( text = config.responseBody, contentType = config.contentType, diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonTest/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ 

,→ KoogHttpClientExceptionTest.kt b/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonTest/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client 

,→ /KoogHttpClientExceptionTest.kt new file mode 100644 index 000000000..f45cb4689 --- /dev/null +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonTest/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClientExceptionTest. 

,→ kt @@ -0,0 +1,48 @@ +package ai.koog.http.client ++import kotlin.test.Test +import kotlin.test.assertContains +import kotlin.test.assertEquals +import kotlin.test.assertFalse +import kotlin.test.assertNull ++class KoogHttpClientExceptionTest { ++ private val exception = KoogHttpClientException( + clientName = "TestClient", + statusCode = 429, + errorBody = "rate limited", + headers = mapOf( + "X-RateLimit-Reset-Requests" to listOf("6m0s"), + "Retry-After" to listOf("30"), + "Set-Cookie" to listOf("session=secret"), + ), + )++ @Test + fun testHeaderLookupIsCaseInsensitive() { + assertEquals("6m0s", exception.header("x-ratelimit-reset-requests")) + assertEquals("30", exception.header("RETRY-AFTER")) + assertNull(exception.header("x-missing")) 

64 + }++ @Test + fun testRateLimitHeadersAreReportedInMessage() { + val message = exception.message!! + assertContains(message, "X-RateLimit-Reset-Requests: 6m0s") + assertContains(message, "Retry-After: 30") + }++ @Test + fun testNonRateLimitHeadersAreNotReportedInMessage() { + assertFalse(exception.message!!.contains("session=secret")) + }++ @Test + fun testHeadersDefaultToEmpty() { + val noHeaders = KoogHttpClientException(clientName = "TestClient", statusCode = 500) + assertEquals(emptyMap(), noHeaders.headers) + assertNull(noHeaders.header("retry-after")) + assertFalse(noHeaders.message!!.contains("Rate limit headers")) + }+} 

Issue #1354, GEPA SKILL 

diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api b/http-client/http-client-core/ 

,→ api/android/http-client-core.api index 74fd66d68..86fe24363 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api @@ -44,10 +44,11 @@ public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClient$Factory$DefaultImpls { public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClientException : java/lang/Exception { public fun <init> ()V - public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/Throwable;)V - public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/ 

,→ String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V + public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/util/Map;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;)V + public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/util/Map; 

,→ Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V public final fun getClientName ()Ljava/lang/String; public final fun getErrorBody ()Ljava/lang/String; + public final fun getHeaders ()Ljava/util/Map; public final fun getStatusCode ()Ljava/lang/Integer; }diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api b/http-client/http-client-core/api/ 

,→ http-client-core.klib.api index 9bc08b46d..472fd5041 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api @@ -32,12 +32,14 @@ abstract interface ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClient : kotlin/AutoCloseable { / }final class ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException : kotlin/Exception { // ai.koog.http.client/ 

,→ KoogHttpClientException|null[0] - constructor <init>(kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/Int? = ..., kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/String? = 

,→ ..., kotlin/Throwable? = ...) // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.<init>|<init>(kotlin. 

,→ String?;kotlin.Int?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.Throwable?){}[0] + constructor <init>(kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/Int? = ..., kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin.collections/ 

,→ Map<kotlin/String, kotlin/String> = ..., kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/Throwable? = ...) // ai.koog.http. 

,→ client/KoogHttpClientException.<init>|<init>(kotlin.String?;kotlin.Int?;kotlin.String?;kotlin. 

,→ collections.Map<kotlin.String,kotlin.String>;kotlin.String?;kotlin.Throwable?){}[0] final val clientName // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.clientName|{}clientName[0] final fun <get-clientName>(): kotlin/String? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ clientName.<get-clientName>|<get-clientName>(){}[0] final val errorBody // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.errorBody|{}errorBody[0] final fun <get-errorBody>(): kotlin/String? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ errorBody.<get-errorBody>|<get-errorBody>(){}[0] + final val headers // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.headers|{}headers[0] + final fun <get-headers>(): kotlin.collections/Map<kotlin/String, kotlin/String> // ai.koog.http. 

,→ client/KoogHttpClientException.headers.<get-headers>|<get-headers>(){}[0] final val statusCode // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.statusCode|{}statusCode[0] final fun <get-statusCode>(): kotlin/Int? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ statusCode.<get-statusCode>|<get-statusCode>(){}[0] }

65 diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api b/http-client/http-client-core/api/ 

,→ jvm/http-client-core.api index 74fd66d68..86fe24363 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api @@ -44,10 +44,11 @@ public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClient$Factory$DefaultImpls { public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClientException : java/lang/Exception { public fun <init> ()V - public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/Throwable;)V - public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/ 

,→ String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V + public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/util/Map;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;)V + public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/util/Map; 

,→ Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V public final fun getClientName ()Ljava/lang/String; public final fun getErrorBody ()Ljava/lang/String; + public final fun getHeaders ()Ljava/util/Map; public final fun getStatusCode ()Ljava/lang/Integer; }diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt b/http-

,→ client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt index 751ce63de..3b8a6e548 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt @@ -2,11 +2,16 @@ package ai.koog.http.client /** * Base exception class for HTTP clients in koog + * + * @param headers Response headers, if any. Exposed via [headers] with lower-cased names, + * since HTTP header names are case-insensitive. Useful for rate-limit hints such as + * ‘retry-after‘ or ‘x-ratelimit-reset-requests‘. */ public class KoogHttpClientException( public val clientName: String? = null, public val statusCode: Int? = null, public val errorBody: String? = null, + headers: Map<String, String> = emptyMap(), message: String? = null, cause: Throwable? = null ) : Exception( @@ -20,4 +25,9 @@ public class KoogHttpClientException( }}, cause -) +) { + /** + * Response headers with lower-cased names, empty if the response carried none. + */ + public val headers: Map<String, String> = headers.mapKeys { (name, _) -> name.lowercase() } +} diff --git a/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt b/ 

,→ http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt index ff5c5fa69..5b025f3d9 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -71,9 +71,13 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), errorBody = response.body(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )}+ private fun HttpResponse<*>.responseHeaders(): Map<String, String> = + headers().map().mapValues { (_, values) -> values.joinToString(", ") } +/** * Appends query parameters to the given URL path. *@@ -196,6 +200,7 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( KoogHttpClientException( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )

66 )return@callbackFlow @@ -285,6 +290,7 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( KoogHttpClientException( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), ))return@launch diff --git a/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/ 

,→ KtorKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/ 

,→ KtorKoogHttpClient.kt index 074e01e89..f77e4347e 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/KtorKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/KtorKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -95,9 +95,13 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.status.value, errorBody = response.bodyAsText(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )}+ private fun HttpResponse.responseHeaders(): Map<String, String> = + headers.entries().associate { (name, values) -> name to values.joinToString(", ") } +private fun HttpRequestBuilder.applyRequestHeaders(headers: Map<String, String>) { headers.forEach { (name, value) -> if (name.equals(HttpHeaders.ContentType, ignoreCase = true)) { @@ -209,6 +213,7 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = e.response?.status?.value, errorBody = errorBody, + headers = e.response?.responseHeaders().orEmpty(), message = e.message, cause = e )@@ -250,6 +255,7 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.status.value, errorBody = response.bodyAsText(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )}diff --git a/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/ 

,→ OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/ 

,→ OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt index 742f2a89d..a4e70f7a7 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -72,9 +72,13 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.code, errorBody = response.body.string(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )}+ private fun Response.responseHeaders(): Map<String, String> = + headers.toMultimap().mapValues { (_, values) -> values.joinToString(", ") } +/** * Builds a complete URL with the specified base path and optional query parameters. *@@ -208,6 +212,7 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response?.code, errorBody = response?.body?.string(), + headers = response?.responseHeaders().orEmpty(), message = t?.message, cause = t )@@ -259,6 +264,7 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.code, errorBody = errorBody, + headers = response.responseHeaders(), ))

67 return@launch diff --git a/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/ 

,→ http/client/spring/SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt index c25c6b7c0..7524065e6 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -334,6 +334,7 @@ public class SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient( clientName = clientName, statusCode = statusCode().value(), errorBody = errorBody, + headers = headers().asHttpHeaders().toSingleValueMap(), )private fun Flow<String>.chunkedToLines(): Flow<String> = flow { diff --git a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest. 

,→ kt b/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt index 2377ea479..d99770cad 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt @@ -182,6 +182,8 @@ abstract class BaseKoogHttpClientTest { } catch (e: KoogHttpClientException) { assertEquals(e.clientName, "TestClient") assertEquals(e.statusCode, 400) + // headers are exposed with lower-cased names, see KoogHttpClientException + assertTrue(e.headers.getValue("content-type").startsWith("text/plain")) }}

Issue #1354, SkillOpt SKILL 

diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api b/http-client/http-client-core/ 

,→ api/android/http-client-core.api index 74fd66d68..94491dd2a 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/android/http-client-core.api @@ -44,11 +44,13 @@ public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClient$Factory$DefaultImpls { public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClientException : java/lang/Exception { public fun <init> ()V - public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/Throwable;)V - public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/ 

,→ String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V + public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/util/Map;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;)V + public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/util/Map; 

,→ Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V public final fun getClientName ()Ljava/lang/String; public final fun getErrorBody ()Ljava/lang/String; + public final fun getHeaders ()Ljava/util/Map; public final fun getStatusCode ()Ljava/lang/Integer; + public final fun header (Ljava/lang/String;)Ljava/lang/String; }public final class ai/koog/http/client/Utils { diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api b/http-client/http-client-core/api/ 

,→ http-client-core.klib.api index 9bc08b46d..fbbe91dfa 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/http-client-core.klib.api @@ -32,14 +32,18 @@ abstract interface ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClient : kotlin/AutoCloseable { / }final class ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException : kotlin/Exception { // ai.koog.http.client/ 

,→ KoogHttpClientException|null[0] - constructor <init>(kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/Int? = ..., kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/String? = 

,→ ..., kotlin/Throwable? = ...) // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.<init>|<init>(kotlin. 

,→ String?;kotlin.Int?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.Throwable?){}[0] + constructor <init>(kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/Int? = ..., kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin.collections/ 

,→ Map<kotlin/String, kotlin.collections/List<kotlin/String>> = ..., kotlin/String? = ..., kotlin/ 

,→ Throwable? = ...) // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.<init>|<init>(kotlin.String?;kotlin. 

,→ Int?;kotlin.String?;kotlin.collections.Map<kotlin.String,kotlin.collections.List<kotlin.String>>;kotlin. 

,→ String?;kotlin.Throwable?){}[0] final val clientName // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.clientName|{}clientName[0] final fun <get-clientName>(): kotlin/String? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ clientName.<get-clientName>|<get-clientName>(){}[0] 

68 final val errorBody // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.errorBody|{}errorBody[0] final fun <get-errorBody>(): kotlin/String? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ errorBody.<get-errorBody>|<get-errorBody>(){}[0] + final val headers // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.headers|{}headers[0] + final fun <get-headers>(): kotlin.collections/Map<kotlin/String, kotlin.collections/List<kotlin/ 

,→ String>> // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.headers.<get-headers>|<get-headers>(){}[0] final val statusCode // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.statusCode|{}statusCode[0] final fun <get-statusCode>(): kotlin/Int? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException. 

,→ statusCode.<get-statusCode>|<get-statusCode>(){}[0] ++ final fun header(kotlin/String): kotlin/String? // ai.koog.http.client/KoogHttpClientException.header 

,→ |header(kotlin.String){}[0] }final fun ai.koog.http.client/mergeHeaders(kotlin/Array<out kotlin.collections/Map<kotlin/String, kotlin/ 

,→ String>>...): kotlin.collections/Map<kotlin/String, kotlin/String> // ai.koog.http.client/mergeHeaders| 

,→ mergeHeaders(kotlin.Array<out|kotlin.collections.Map<kotlin.String,kotlin.String>>...){}[0] diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api b/http-client/http-client-core/api/ 

,→ jvm/http-client-core.api index 74fd66d68..94491dd2a 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/api/jvm/http-client-core.api @@ -44,11 +44,13 @@ public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClient$Factory$DefaultImpls { public final class ai/koog/http/client/KoogHttpClientException : java/lang/Exception { public fun <init> ()V - public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/Throwable;)V - public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/ 

,→ String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V + public fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/util/Map;Ljava/ 

,→ lang/String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;)V + public synthetic fun <init> (Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Integer;Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/util/Map; 

,→ Ljava/lang/String;Ljava/lang/Throwable;ILkotlin/jvm/internal/DefaultConstructorMarker;)V public final fun getClientName ()Ljava/lang/String; public final fun getErrorBody ()Ljava/lang/String; + public final fun getHeaders ()Ljava/util/Map; public final fun getStatusCode ()Ljava/lang/Integer; + public final fun header (Ljava/lang/String;)Ljava/lang/String; }public final class ai/koog/http/client/Utils { diff --git a/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt b/http-

,→ client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt index 751ce63de..cd79958dd 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-core/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/Exceptions.kt @@ -2,11 +2,15 @@ package ai.koog.http.client /** * Base exception class for HTTP clients in koog + * + * @property headers Response headers, empty if no response was received. Keys are lower-cased, since 

,→ HTTP header + * names are case-insensitive; use [header] to look one up without worrying about casing. */ public class KoogHttpClientException( public val clientName: String? = null, public val statusCode: Int? = null, public val errorBody: String? = null, + headers: Map<String, List<String>> = emptyMap(), message: String? = null, cause: Throwable? = null ) : Exception( @@ -20,4 +24,12 @@ public class KoogHttpClientException( }}, cause -) +) { + public val headers: Map<String, List<String>> = headers.mapKeys { (name, _) -> name.lowercase() } ++ /** + * Returns the first value of the response header [name], looked up case-insensitively, + * or ‘null‘ if the header is absent. + */ + public fun header(name: String): String? = headers[name.lowercase()]?.firstOrNull() +} diff --git a/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt b/ 

,→ http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt index ff5c5fa69..ed1ef8bb9 100644 

69 --- a/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-java/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/java/JavaKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -55,6 +55,8 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( val contentType: String )+ private fun HttpResponse<*>.responseHeaders(): Map<String, List<String>> = headers().map() +private fun <R : Any> processResponse(response: HttpResponse<String>, responseType: KClass<R>): R { if (response.statusCode() in 200..299) { val responseBody = response.body() @@ -71,6 +73,7 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), errorBody = response.body(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )}@@ -196,6 +199,7 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( KoogHttpClientException( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), ))return@callbackFlow @@ -285,6 +289,7 @@ public class JavaKoogHttpClient internal constructor( KoogHttpClientException( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.statusCode(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), ))return@launch diff --git a/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/ 

,→ KtorKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/ 

,→ KtorKoogHttpClient.kt index 074e01e89..c9310eb72 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/KtorKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-ktor/src/commonMain/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/ktor/KtorKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -95,9 +95,13 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.status.value, errorBody = response.bodyAsText(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )}+ private fun HttpResponse.responseHeaders(): Map<String, List<String>> = + headers.entries().associate { (name, values) -> name to values } +private fun HttpRequestBuilder.applyRequestHeaders(headers: Map<String, String>) { headers.forEach { (name, value) -> if (name.equals(HttpHeaders.ContentType, ignoreCase = true)) { @@ -209,6 +213,7 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = e.response?.status?.value, errorBody = errorBody, + headers = e.response?.responseHeaders().orEmpty(), message = e.message, cause = e )@@ -250,6 +255,7 @@ public class KtorKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.status.value, errorBody = response.bodyAsText(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )}diff --git a/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/ 

,→ OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/ 

,→ OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt index 742f2a89d..5bea1c0e1 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-okhttp/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/okhttp/OkHttpKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -56,6 +56,8 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( private fun Map<String, String>.headerValue(name: String): String? = entries.firstOrNull { (key, _) -> key.equals(name, ignoreCase = true) }?.value 

70 + private fun Response.responseHeaders(): Map<String, List<String>> = headers.toMultimap() +private fun <R : Any> processResponse(response: Response, responseType: KClass<R>): R { if (response.isSuccessful) { val responseBody = response.body.string() @@ -72,6 +74,7 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.code, errorBody = response.body.string(), + headers = response.responseHeaders(), )}@@ -208,6 +211,7 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response?.code, errorBody = response?.body?.string(), + headers = response?.responseHeaders().orEmpty(), message = t?.message, cause = t )@@ -253,12 +257,14 @@ public class OkHttpKoogHttpClient internal constructor( if (!response.isSuccessful) { val errorBody = response.body.string() + val errorHeaders = response.responseHeaders() response.close() close( KoogHttpClientException( clientName = clientName, statusCode = response.code, errorBody = errorBody, + headers = errorHeaders, ))return@launch diff --git a/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt b/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/ 

,→ http/client/spring/SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt index c25c6b7c0..df928a29d 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-spring-webclient/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/spring/ 

,→ SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient.kt @@ -334,6 +334,7 @@ public class SpringWebClientKoogHttpClient( clientName = clientName, statusCode = statusCode().value(), errorBody = errorBody, + headers = headers().asHttpHeaders(), )private fun Flow<String>.chunkedToLines(): Flow<String> = flow { diff --git a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest. 

,→ kt b/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt index 2377ea479..ed5b61a28 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt +++ b/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/BaseKoogHttpClientTest.kt @@ -166,7 +166,8 @@ abstract class BaseKoogHttpClientTest { path = "/fail", responseBody = "Bad things", statusCode = HttpStatusCode.BadRequest, - contentType = ContentType.Text.Plain + contentType = ContentType.Text.Plain, + responseHeaders = mapOf("X-RateLimit-Reset-Requests" to "6m0s") )))@@ -182,6 +183,9 @@ abstract class BaseKoogHttpClientTest { } catch (e: KoogHttpClientException) { assertEquals(e.clientName, "TestClient") assertEquals(e.statusCode, 400) + // headers are exposed lower-cased, and looked up case-insensitively + assertEquals(listOf("6m0s"), e.headers["x-ratelimit-reset-requests"]) + assertEquals("6m0s", e.header("X-RateLimit-Reset-Requests")) }}diff --git a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/MockWebServer.kt b/http-

,→ client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/MockWebServer.kt index 7393d738b..3a10f4b9a 100644 --- a/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/MockWebServer.kt 

71 +++ b/http-client/http-client-test/src/main/kotlin/ai/koog/http/client/test/MockWebServer.kt @@ -53,7 +53,8 @@ class MockWebServer { val statusCode: HttpStatusCode = HttpStatusCode.OK, val contentType: ContentType = ContentType.Text.Plain, val expectedParameters: Map<String, String> = emptyMap(), - val expectedHeaders: Map<String, String> = emptyMap() + val expectedHeaders: Map<String, String> = emptyMap(), + val responseHeaders: Map<String, String> = emptyMap() )/** @@ -153,6 +154,8 @@ class MockWebServer { }}+ config.responseHeaders.forEach { (key, value) -> call.response.header(key, value) 

,→ }+call.respondText( text = config.responseBody, contentType = config.contentType, 

72