Title: Deep Learning-based Bug Triage System

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.11420v1

Published Time: Fri, 11 Sep 2026 00:59:19 GMT

Number of Pages: 5

Markdown Content:
# Deep Learning-based Bug Triage System 

Sourabh Pal OLAS Team, INRIA/University of Bologna 

sourabh.pal2@unibo.it 

Abstract 

Effective bug triage is crucial for streamlin-ing the software development lifecycle by ac-curately categorizing and assigning reported software defects. In this paper, we propose an automated bug triage system built upon the pre-trained RoBERTa-base transformer archi-tecture. By leveraging deep contextual repre-sentations, our approach efficiently classifies incoming bug reports to optimize assignment. Experimental evaluation demonstrates that the proposed system achieves a strong bug identifi-cation accuracy of 0.90 within just five training epochs. These findings highlight the efficiency and high performance of fine-tuned transformer models for practical software engineering au-tomation. 

1 Introduction 

Software development is a very complex and chal-lenging process. It includes the five steps namely, analysis, design, implementation, testing, and main-tenance (Bassil, 2012). Software Maintenance re-quires nearly 40-80% of the overall software pro-duction costs and there are plenty of tools designed to help developers (Lenarduzzi et al., 2020; Sillitti et al., 2011). The developers mostly analyze the bug reports and spend significant time understand-ing the specific parts of the code responsible for producing the bugs. It consumes over 30% of the time of software maintenance (Glass, 2001). The user of the software product mainly submits the issue in case of failure of the software system. While the user reports the bug, the bug informa-tion is stored in the issue tracking system. Large software systems consist of different products and components. It could be convenient for the de-velopers to identify the bug-producing code if the developer identifies the component responsible for producing that specific bug. Conventionally, the user provides the information of the product and component while submitting the bug reports to the issue tracking system. In this research, we conduct the following two experiments: • Identify Component: The easy and fast iden-tification of the buggy component for the new coming bugs can reduce the bug triage re-sources. Conventionally, the developers or experts manually read the bug reports and as-sign the bugs to specific components for fur-ther assignment to the developer responsible for resolving the bug. The manual process of component identification is time-consuming. In this research, we automatically identify the component for the new upcoming bugs. • Buggy: It is not always possible that the pro-vided bug reports from the user are always buggy. It could be duplicate bugs, invalid bugs, or already resolved. Therefore, the au-tomatic identification of the actual bug can re-duce the utilization of the bug triage resources. 

2 Dataset Description 

Bugzilla (Bugzilla Issue Tracking System) is a web-based issue-tracking system that allows developers to track and resolve the bugs of software products. In an issue-tracking system, the users usually raise bugs, and based on the bugs report the the software practitioners triage the bugs. We have collected only the Client Software type of software prod-uct from the web repository. This type contains sixteen different products namely, Calendar, Cloud Services, Data Platform and Tools, Fenix, Firefox, Firefox for iOS, Firefox Private Network, Focus, Focus-iOS, Mozilla Localizations, Mozilla VPN, Other Applications, Pocket, SeaMonkey, Thunder-bird, and Web Compatibility. We extracted the following information from the issue tracking system: • BugSummary: It describes the issue that arises in the software system. arXiv:2609.11420v1 [cs.SE] 10 Sep 2026 • Product: It defines the which software soft-ware product affect due to bug. • Component: It defines the which component of the software software product affect due to bug. • Resolution: It defines the current status of the bug. It consists of ten different status as follows: 

– FIXED: It indicates that a particular commit has fixed the bug. 

– INVALID: It indicates that something about this bug report is invalid or does not compute. 

– WONTFIX: It indicates that this may be a bug, but we aren’t planning to fix it for some reason because it would not affect users. 

– INACTIVE: It indicates that a bug re-port is no longer being worked on or monitored for various reasons such as being closed, and so on. 

– DUPLICATE: It indicates that the bug is a duplicate of another bug already in the system. 

– WORKSFORME: It defines that the tester has tested the bug which could re-produce it in an older version, but can’t anymore in a current version. 

– INCOMPLETE: It defines that the bug reports do not provide enough informa-tion to be tackled. 

– EXPIRED: The issue bugs are expired because the issues are probably already solved. 

– MOVED: The Bugzilla is not the proper place to report this bug. So, it should move to the other issue tracking system. We extracted 69431 bug reports (Dataset) from the Bugzilla issue tracking system. 

3 Architecture Overview 

We represent an automated approach to identify the affected component and classify the software bug for the upcoming bugs. Our approach consists of three steps, namely Data Collection , Data Clean-ing , and Classification . We discuss each steps of our approach as follows. 

> Figure 1: A Schematic representation of our proposed approach.

3.1 Data Collection 

Software bug reports stored in the issue tracking system. We need to extract the relevant information from this issue tracking system for further automa-tion of the bug triage activities. In our case study, we extracted the Bug Summary, Component and Resolution from the Bugzilla issue tracking system to store it the the database for further analysis of our research. 

3.2 Data Cleaning 

The bug description or summary usually available in the form of natural language. Therefore, we ap-ply the standard natural language processing tech-niques (NLP) to clean or preprocess our data for further analysis. We applied the three approaches to preprocess our NLP based bug summary, namely Special Character Removal, Stop Word Removal, and Lemmatization. We discuss this approaches as follows. • Special Character Removal: In this step, we remove all punctuation symbols (., !, etc.) are removed, and the alphanumeric symbols (‘*’, ‘@’, ‘#’, etc.) appear in the in the sen-tence are removed and replace with empty spaces. • Stop Word Elimination: The stop words includes the article, helping verb, modal verb, pronoun and so on. This are the most fre-quently used words in the natural language. Therefore, they does not contribute to the mod-eling of the natural language based tasks (Plis-son et al., 2004). So, the Stop Word Elimi-nation may improve the performance of the model. • Lemmatization: We used the lemmatiza-tion techniques to convert the words of the bug summary into its canonical form. For ex-ample, the word communicating can be lem-matized into its canonical form communicate. The main intuition behind this step is that it groups all the related words with the same root word. This step in NLP makes it easier for prediction and generation tasks. 

3.3 Classification 

Our approach uses deep learning techniques. We hypothesize that our technique should exhibit im-proved learning from the contextual features of the bug resolution summary report due to the use of the attention mechanism. This should lead to boosting the performance of the classifier. We schematically represent our proposed approach in 1. 

4 Experimental Setup 

We conducted our experiment on a single GPU with a Tesla T4 environment. In this paper, we analyze two research tasks namely, the identifica-tion of the corresponding buggy component for the new upcoming bug and classify whether the newly assigned bug is buggy or non-buggy. We used the Bug Summary form the the dataset for the modeling of our model. Additionally, we use the component metrics for the labeling of the com-ponent to identify the suitable component of the new bugs, whereas we use the Resolution metrics for labeling for the identification of the bugginess of the new bugs. We labelled the bug as buggy based on the resolution, if the resolution is FIXED, we labelled it as 1 which is buggy. Otherwise, we labelled it as 0 which is non-buggy. We use the Transformer-based language model RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) for our experiment. In the case of the training and test datasets, we have chosen randomly 90 percent of the data for the training and 10 percent of data for the test of our model. 

5 Results and Analysis 

We use the RoBERTa base transformer with only five epochs due to the lack of available infrastruc-ture. In the experiment, we will analyze the train-ing loss and the validation loss of our model to verify the performance of our model. The train-ing loss (red line) and validation loss (blue line) of component classification and buggy classification are provided in Figure 2 and Figure 4 respectively. Furthermore, we will measure the accuracy of our model for both research questions. The results anal-ysis of our research questions are following: • Component Identification: This is the mul-ticlass classification because software prod-ucts generally consist of multiple components. The identification of the right component for the newly assigned software bugs could re-duce the effort and resources of the bug triage approaches. In our collected datasets, we have a total of 325 unique components. The train-ing loss of our model is decreasing over the Epochs in Figure 2 which indicates that our model is learning to fit the training data better with each epoch. Additionally, the validation loss of our model is also decreasing with in-creasing the number of epochs. It indicates that our model is training well for the pre-diction of unseen data. The accuracy of the proposed model of the software component identification is increasing over time with in-creasing epochs. We have active about 0.7 ac-curacy with only five epochs in our experimen-tation in Figure 3. Therefore, our proposed model of component identification provides an opportunity to automatize the process of component identification in the software bug triage system. • Bug Identification: This is the binary classi-fication where our model will identify whether Figure 2: Training Loss and Validation of Component Classification. 

> Figure 3: Accuracy of Component Classification.

the newly assigned bug is buggy. The early identification of the bugginess of the newly assigned bug could reduce the effort and re-sources of the bug triage approaches. The training loss of our model is decreasing over the Epochs in Figure 4 which indicates that our model is learning to fit the training data better with each epoch. Additionally, the val-idation loss of our model is also increasing with increasing the number of epochs. It indi-cates that our model is suffering from the over-fitting problem due to the noisy data. More-over, we have active accuracy over 0.9 with only five epochs in our experimentation in Figure 5. Therefore, our proposed model is performing well with the given datasets with slightly overfitting issues. 

6 Conclusion 

In this paper, we proposed an automated bug triage system utilizing the fine-tuned RoBERTa-base transformer model to enhance the efficiency of bug categorization and assignment in software development. By capturing deep contextual seman-

> Figure 4: Training Loss and Validation of Bug Classifi-cation.
> Figure 5: Accuracy of Bug Classification.

tics from bug reports, our system demonstrates re-markable effectiveness, achieving an identification accuracy of 0.90 within only five training epochs. These findings confirm that transformer-based ar-chitectures can significantly reduce the manual overhead associated with defect classification while maintaining high precision. In future work, we plan to extend this framework by evaluating it on larger and more heterogeneous multi-project datasets, incorporating severity pre-diction, and exploring lightweight or distilled trans-former models to improve runtime efficiency and lower deployment costs. 

References     

> Youssef Bassil. 2012. A simulation model for the water-fall software development life cycle. arXiv preprint arXiv:1205.6904 .Bugzilla Issue Tracking System. https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/home. Dataset. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zGU 5xIMSftZZNaKBl-ka_tzKkbc0GrxPTQNLPDcGy Ws/edit?usp=sharing.

Robert L Glass. 2001. Frequently forgotten fundamen-tal facts about software engineering. IEEE software ,18(3):112. Valentina Lenarduzzi, Alberto Sillitti, and Davide Taibi. 2020. A survey on code analysis tools for software maintenance prediction. In Proceedings of 6th In-ternational Conference in Software Engineering for Defence Applications: SEDA 2018 6 , pages 165–175. Springer. Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Man-dar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining ap-proach. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692 .Joël Plisson, Nada Lavrac, Dunja Mladenic, et al. 2004. A rule based approach to word lemmatization. In 

Proceedings of IS , volume 3, pages 83–86. Citeseer. Alberto Sillitti, Giancarlo Succi, and Jelena Vlasenko. 2011. Toward a better understanding of tool usage (nier track). In Proceedings of the 33rd Interna-tional Conference on Software Engineering , pages 832–835.